MBOMBELA &#8211; Mr Adriano dos Santos is the man behind the newly launched Pre-empt. He says the difference between this application and others on the market is the added services it offers, such as danger-zone warnings and notifications of criminal or suspicious activity in one&#8217;s immediate surroundings.In the near future a timer will be added to the programme, whereby users will be able to preset their estimated travelling time from one location to another. This will inform the control room of the security company with which the application is partnered.If the user does not reach his or her destination in the allotted time, the security company will immediately respond. A button for ambulance services will also to be added in time.Lees ook: Besighede vat hande om Hi-Tech te steunThe application works by using Google Maps and the Global Positioning System (GPS) to determine the user&#8217;s location.In the Lowveld, Pre-empt has partnered with Hi-Tech Security. Dos Santos says he chose the company not only because it is the biggest in the area but because it also has the most vehicles.&#8220;Reaction time is incredibly important. Even one minute could mean the difference between life and death. If Hi-Tech is not able to respond, the closest security company will assist you. You can activate the panic button wherever you are,&#8221; he explained.Hi-Tech&#8217;s Mr Johnny Kerswill agreed that the launch of the application is good for Lowvelders and the South African community in general.&#8220;We are the only security company which covers the whole Lowveld. We have 33 armed response vehicles and our own ambulance services. We think this new venture will contribute towards crime prevention,&#8221; he said.Also read: The problem with high walls: Rethinking safety in the age of hyperalertness This is an application for all members of the public as one does not have to be a Hi-Tech client to download the programme. The Pre-empt app can be downloaded on iOS and Android smartphones.Once the account has been activated, Hi-Tech will contact you. Hi-Tech clients will be billed on their existing account, and non-clients will be mailed a debit order.It costs R50 per device per month and R100 for the family package. Business quotations can be worked out based on how many people work for the respective company.&#8220;What makes this app special is there is absolutely no call-out fee on top of the monthly charge. Even if a person hits the panic button a number of times in one month and it is for a valid reason, that client will not be charged,&#8221; said Dos Santos.He adds that he hopes to expand the use of the application to other provinces around the country. Enquiries: preempt@hitechnst.co.za.