MBOMBELA &#8211; Lowveld Hospital received almost R80 000 in donations from the community to help save a life. This follows after the hospital reported that Mr Sipho Hadebe (39) would die from a tumour on his face. The growth would have fatally blocked his airway within a year.Hadebe is a security guard from Barberton. Unfortunately, Mbombela&#8217;s state hospital, Rob Ferreira, was unable to assist him. It had referred him to the Steve Biko Hospital in Pretoria, where he was placed on a seven-year waiting list. Due to the grotesque nature of the growth, his employer sent him home without pay in November last year, until surgery could be performed. Lowveld Hospital&#8217;s customer relationship manager, Ms Lisa Volbrecht, said his wife Lindiwe, a supermarket attendant, had been the sole breadwinner since.She added that it was a blessing when Dr Pieter Scheepers, a maxilla facial surgeon at Lowveld Hospital, offered to perform the massive seven-hour reconstructive surgery, free of charge. The hospital also made its operating theatre, equipment and staff available for free. Additionally, Dr Hannes Raath, personally donated the money required to pay for Hadebe&#8217;s prosthesis. However, the hospital still needed funds to cover anaesthetist fees as well as medication costs, which amounted to almost R50 000.An urgent plea for help was sent out to the community. This hurdle was overcome when the Nelspruit Anaesthetists Association offered to do the procedure for free. Hadebe went into theatre yesterday. According to Ms Suzanne Knouwds from Dr Pieter Scheepers&#8217; rooms, the tumour was removed and primary reconstruction was done with a 3D-printed assisted titanium prosthesis. The hard-tissue defect was reconstructed.Volbrecht said Hadebe would definitely need rehabilitation, medicine and another procedure for more implantations and teeth. &#8220;We can only estimate the costs of his next surgery after today,&#8221; she said.Read more here : Lowveld Hospital the best in the country