The month of November marks the beginning of the malaria transmission season. The theme for this year&#8217;s campaign is End Malaria For good . Malaria can spread from endemic areas to non-malaria areas through imported vector mosquitoes or parasite carriers. It is important to protect yourself from mosquito bites when visiting malaria endemic areas. You are therefore advised to visit your clinic for a malaria test immediately on your return from malaria endemic areas, when you experience malaria symptoms. This will both prevent malaria spread to other people and save your life.Malaria is one of the most serious diseases in the world especially in the SADC region and poses a risk to travellers and to communities in malaria areas. The disease can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated at an early stage.&nbsp;Malaria is responsible for 20% of childhood deaths and in excess of 30% and 40% of outpatient visits and hospitalisations, respectively. WHO has estimated that three quarters of the population residing in this region are at risk of contracting malaria, including 35 million children younger than five years of age and approximately 8.5 million pregnant women.The Southern African Development Community (SADC) counterparts celebrate SADC Malaria Day to promote the awareness of malaria in risk communities. The campaign forms part of the annual SADC Malaria Awareness Week, which culminates into SADC Malaria Day as held at Naas in the Ehlanzeni District of Mpumalanga today.Malaria signs and symptoms include fever, headaches, body pains, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, cold chills and hot sweats. Visit a clinic immediately for early diagnosed and prompt treatment. We cannot overemphasise the importance of visiting your health facility immediately when you have a fever, body pains or weakness, cold chills, hot sweats, diarrhoea, headache and a history of fever.88% of malaria cases were imported from other endemic countries and people of Nkomazi municipality were also visiting other malaria areas where they contracted the disease. Nkomazi municipality is bordering Swaziland and Mozambique which are malaria endemics. It is important to ensure that our communities are protected against malaria.&nbsp;Mpumalanga MEC for Health, Mr. Gillion Mashego said The province has managed to reduce malaria cases and deaths and it is now participating in the country goal of malaria elimination by 2018. One of the main strategies to eliminate malaria in the Province is vector control through Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) of homes with long lasting insecticides in the malaria areas . It is important for your house to be sprayed before the malaria high transmission starts in January each year.He urges health officials, specifically the health promotion teams to work with the community and community leaders to raise malaria awareness to ensure good understanding of why houses need to be sprayed. Mosquitoes that are responsible for malaria transmission are being killed through this strategy and thus malaria transmission is reduced. This intervention approach contributed to the success that South Africa has been enjoying in the past years in reducing the malaria burden. On average 600 000 structures/rooms are sprayed during a malaria season in Mpumalanga.Malaria transmission in Mpumalanga is currently restricted to the eastern and southern parts bordering Mozambique and Swaziland.READ MORE: South Africa Malaria Fact SheetOur close collaboration with all SADC countries will contribute to the success into malaria elimination in the region. This will be done within the framework of the Mozambique, South Africa and Swaziland (MOSASWA) Initiative that started in 2015.Since the 2010/2011 season we have been able to keep malaria cases below 4 000 each year. We have scaled up our health promotion campaigns throughout the malaria season to improve community awareness. We have also trained nurses, doctors and health workers on effective malaria case management and also stocked up on insecticides and malaria drugs and we are ready for this malaria season.We should always be vigilant so that we can prevent and contain malaria in order to reduce the risk of malaria infection. Mpumalanga province is committed to the fight against malaria in the SADC region.We can all help to fight the disease by protecting ourselves from mosquito bites and by going to the clinic early for diagnosis and treatment.