According to Norton Rose Fulbright s website, land in Mozambique cannot be sold, mortgaged or alienated in any way, but buildings, infrastructure and improvements built on land may be mortgaged and sold.Approval for an investment project by the Investment Promotion Centre of Mozambique (CPI) allows foreign entities to hold the land right (called Direito do Uso e Aproveitamento da Terra (DUAT).The Periodic Occupation Regulation regulates residential tourism. BIVE does not appear on the Periodic Housing Approval list obtained from the ministry of Tourism as of September 30, 2014.Erasmus claims he doesn t need Periodic Housing Approval. It is not a one-stop law. We are not building only holiday houses. It is an urban town planning project. It is bigger. In one of the marketing documents for BIVE, Erasmus cites obtaining the DUAT as allowing construction to begin. Upon completion you are then able to apply for a title deed on the building it forms a fixture on the land. You have full ownership of the entire property. Erasmus showed Lowvelder Portuguese documents that all official required government approvals are in place: the CPI, the DUAT and declarations of final payments made to the three families from which he purchased the land.However, when Lowvelder asked for copies to verify its content and the legality of it, he declined.In a second attempt via email, Erasmus claimed that the documents may land in the wrong hands. He requested Lowvelder to travel to the High Commission in Johannesburg where someone could translate. I have now afforded you another opportunity to meet at an official institution of the Mozambican government where you can request these documents be translated, explained to you and their legality verified and you state that you are not interested? This seems highly suspicious to me. Meanwhile Lowvelder has obtained a series of photos of the development site that shows that nothing much has happened. Erasmus continues to market the BIVE development.