SKUKUZA &#8211; SANParks Honorary Rangers from different regions recently joined course leaders Ms Elsab de Bruyn , practice manager of Casterbridge Animal Hospital in White River and Ms Mandi Malan at the Kruger National Park K9 Unit for a first aid for dogs course.The course would enable them to care for and enable them to look after the well-being of the dogs when they are doing duty at the unit.The first fourfooted patient on the table was Hunter, who recently had a run-in in the veld with another animal and has an injury on his cheek which the Honorary Rangers had to treat.The KNP K9 Unit is the biggest anti-poaching dog unit in the world. These prescious dogs are well-guarded and looked after by manager of the Unit, Johan de Beer and his team of dog-handlers. During the handler&#8217;s leave or when ill the anti-poaching dogs get to do a stint at the unit where they can just be dogs and have a vacation of their own.It is during this breakaway from their anti-poaching duties that they will be cared for by the Honorary Rangers from regions such as the Lowveld. (Read more about this in Lowvelder of November 8).What is good enough for an anti-poaching dog is of course more than good enough for your dog at home. The First Aid team passed the following hints on to Lowvelder readers:&nbsp;1. Working dogs need more water than other dogs.2. A dog must not be worked or exercised after feeding.3. Dogs should be brushed from head to tail, then the chest, flanks and finally the legs. After dipping a dog and once dry, all loose hair must be brushed out.4. There are no rules about the frequency a dog should be bathed but it takes up to six weeks for natural oil to return to skin and coat. Once a month is sufficient.5. Before a dog is bathed, it should be brushed.6. Problems with teeth can be prevented by brushing the dog s teeth with a soft brush and bicarbonate of soda.7. A dog must not be fed before he is in transit.8. A dog must be taken out every two hours of the vehicle to stretch legs and relieve themselves.9. Muzzles cannot be used on dogs that have difficulty breathing.10. Blanketing a dog can help with restraining it and gives it a sense of security.11. Bee stings: Pull out stinger with tweezers. Apply a cold compress and apply a paste mixture of baking soda and water to the sting area.12. Be very careful of a dog s bleeding because the animal may lose enough blood to cause shock. Loss of as little as one tablespoon per kg of body weight may cause shock.13. Internal bleeding is a life-threatening condition. These are some signs: Paleness, cold on the legs, ears or tail and the pet is either excited or subdued.14. Bloat is a life-threatening condition in which the stomach is fill with air and twists. The dog will be drooling with saliva and try to vomit and be anxious. Immediately transport to a vet.15. If a dog faints immediately position him with the head down and the hind quarters elevated.