PRETORIA &#8211; The Agricultural Writers Association of South Africa recently awarded Barry Christie, operations manager of the Southern African Macadamia Growers Association (Samac), the award of the agriculturist of the year for Mpumalanga.Judges on the panel accorded him the award because as a researcher, project manager and communications expert he has been the backbone of the successes achieved in the industry.To this humble and helpful ex-pupil of Ho rskool Ben Vorster in Tzaneen it is a real honour that he gladly and thankfully shares with his wife, Nanette. I want to make a difference in the lives of farmers. I believe that God has given us a commission to cultivate and protect His creation and I want to play a part in that, said Christie.He kicked off his career as a technical adviser in 2011. The real seed was planted at a very young age on a mango farm, Koekwe near Tzaneen, where his parents, Henry and Jetty still farm.At a young age he observed that some trees were dying one by one. He pointed it out to his father, quite afraid that the disease might spread to the entire orchard. This was a watershed moment in my life, where I knew I wanted to work in the agricultural industry and help farmers, recalled Christie.His father obtained the help of a plant pathologist and he keenly observed the way he went about his business on the farm.This job immediately appealed to Christie. The dream in his heart was planted to use science and research to help farmers find solutions.It is exactly what he is doing at present.Christie was responsible to give technical advice and help find long-term solutions to problems in the macadamia, avocado, litchi and mango industries. Although he is still involved with the technical aspects of macadamias, he is also engaged in other aspects such as marketing, special projects and liaising with government and internationally with industry stakeholders.With a masters degree in plant pathology from Tukkies it is a job that he is well qualified to do. Being practical and pragmatic, he made an early choice in his academic career to rather do basic applicable research than to be confined to a laboratory.During a field trip to banana farms, he identified macadamias as a growing industry where he realised the threats that pests and diseases held for the future of the industry.When he moved to Nelspruit in 2012, his first job was to finish a tree census. He soon found out in the Lowveld that macadamias were king with more than 8000ha of land covered in these trees as opposed to avocado trees growing on approximately 4000ha.Today Christie is looking for scientific solutions to challenges in the industry like using genetics to produce better cultivars and researching biological control as a means to end diseases.Negotiations are under way with the Forestry and Agricultural Biotechnology Institute to establish a long-term macadamia research programme to achieve this.He is also involved with developing learning material which farmers can use for themselves and their workers. He is proud of a series of DVDs that he has developed with a team to be used for these purposes.With the growing demand for macadamias as well as a predicted higher crop year after year, Christie believes that research into the health aspects of this tasty nut is important.It is especially the nut s unique attribute, omega-7, that he would like to see researched.But this time it is not back to the laboratory for Christie. He is actively involved in the marketing side of macadamias, especially to the Chinese market. Samac is trying to negotiate reduced import tariffs into China, where he, the Samac chair and his colleagues are involved with. He is also excited about the development of a technological tool that can be used in the orchard to enable farmers to identify specific pest species and combat them accordingly. If there is a solution, we will find it. We just need to keep adapting to a changing environment, said Christie.