The matric holiday is all about drinking from sunrise to sunset, partying, making out in public and little to no sleep. With the week-long holiday around the corner, there are a few things you need to know before completely losing all your inhibitions.Myth: You have more energy when you drink alcohol Sadly, no. Alcohol is a depressant and it slows down your ability to speak, think, move and also your thinking capability.Myth: People who have had too much can only hurt themselves Every person who drinks has a mother, father, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, grandparents best friend, boyfriend or girlfriend who cares about them.Courtesy of The Super Drunk SeriesMyth: We all react the same to alcohol There are a number of factors that will determine how you react to alcohol. Have you eaten or not? Weight, the time of day, your mental state, body chemistry, expectations, etc. The list is long. Just remember that moderation is your guide. Beware of drinking too much and ending up in hospital with alcohol poisoning.Myth: Coffee/ Cr me Soda or a cold shower will sober you up Nothing but time and rest will sober you up. With coffee, you will just become a wide-awake drunk.Myth: It s not my business if my friends drink too much If you call yourself a real friend, it is your business and you have a responsibility towards them. Be honest with them, maybe they will listen to you. You can t make them drink less, but you can voice your opinion and inform them of the dangers.Myth: The worst thing that can happen is a hangover Unfortunately a hangover is the lesser bad things that could happen to you. Alcohol poisoning, rape, getting AIDS, or pregnant, accidents, drink spiking, violent brawls, being mugged at knife- or gunpoint, or worse. Again, the list goes on, and as you can see, there are more serious things to worry about other than a hangover.Up to 58% of accidents can be attributed to drunken drivingMyth: Alcohol makes me sexy True, but only to yourself. Alcohol might give you a newly boosted confidence and an ego to boot, but nobody wants to deal with a person that makes decisions that they probably won t even remember in the morning. Just remember, the more you drink, the less you think!READ MORE: Lowveld High&#8217;s matric farewell a sophisticated celebrationMyth: I will meet the love of my life on matric holiday Life isn t like the movies. A party on the beach together with alcohol are not really a good foundation to build a meaningful, long-term relationship.