Ms Eva van Deventer told Lowvelder that her path crossed with Erasmus in 2009. She paid Erasmus R90 000 to secure a stand, with the idea of building a holiday home to rent out.Van Deventer and her husband Aldo secured unit 84 and as per agreement they had to construct the property themselves.Yet, no services were installed, which made it impossible to commence with their building. Yet, she says they had to pay up: Water was never connected, but we were charged levies since 2009. For the seven months from June to December this totalled R2 206.They wanted their money back, but when Erasmus refused to refund them, the couple decided to write the money off. While they have made peace with the fact that they have lost their money, Van Deventer wants to warn other as the marketing and selling of BIVE continues.Erasmus entered into an agreement with Flagprop 3 Construction for the sole and exclusive building rights on the development.Flagprop s Mr Mike Els told Lowvelder that he withdrew from the agreement about four years ago, as nothing was happening. Nobody can build, there are no services. Erasmus explained that investors secured building packages, putting down a deposit to build a house whenever they are ready or can afford to build their house . BIVE holds the DUAT and has the sole right to appoint the construction company.He added that he seriously doubted whether Lowvelder spoke to the real Els, claiming the company was bankrupted, resulting in the agreement dissolving.Erasmus explained to Lowvelder that there are roads and water and security &#8211; roads are clearly visible on aerial photographs and that all electricity was supposed to be solar from the outset. She didn t tell me she wanted her money back, he added.Yet in an email from Erasmus, dated May 27, 2015, he informed Van Deventer: I can however assure you that you will not be refunded as you have a legal binding legal contract. Only once we have a new investor to take up your share portion of the building package will you receive the money you have invested. Erasmus told the newspaper that no contracts were signed prior to 2012 and did not give reason why he started charging Van Deventer levies in 2009.Upon being presented with her levy bill, he said, I deal with a lot of people. Erasmus did not answer all Lowvelder s questions during the interview and in follow-up questions on email he explained that initial contracts were signed with his Vilanculos Beach Properties but that BIVE obtained the land right (called Direito do Uso e Aproveitamento da Terra (DUAT) in 2010, and then the relevant rights and approvals in 2012.Erasmus is miffed as to why construction has started on only two houses to date. That is a good question. War talks make people nervous, he offered.