Wheels 24 says that a total of 55 090 cases of stolen cars and motorcycles were reported stolen in 2014. In most cases, vehicles that are stolen are either exported to another country, chopped for spare parts or even resold to other drivers locally.Where you choose to park will significantly influence the odds of being a victim of car theft or not. Whenever possible, try to park in a spot that is clearly visible to the public and ask yourself how easy it would be to approach your vehicle without anyone seeing. The more people who can see your car, the less likely it will be that someone is going to have enough time to break into your car without raising suspicions.These days, tracking systems are highly accurate, and can pinpoint the location of your car down to a few metres, so make sure your car is fitted with a reputable tracking device!Leaving bags or containers in your car that look as if they may have valuable items in them make your car more attractive to thieves. Make sure you hide any bags away &#8211; even if they are empty, as this may just provide enough incentive for a criminal to break into your car.Central locking with a remote beeper is certainly convenient, but media reports have confirmed that criminals are taking advantage of this modern convenience. As you walk away from your car and casually press the lock button, don t assume that your vehicle will lock! Criminals rely on this and using a remote jamming device they can block the signal from your car so that your vehicle does not receive the signal to lock the doors. This allows the thief to walk up to the car as if he owns it and to steal your possessions and possibly even the car itself.Leaving your window slightly open makes breaking or smashing the windows of a vehicle far more difficult. This is because the window becomes more flexible allowing it to absorb impact without shattering. Alternatively, you can safeguard your vehicle by taking out a car insurance plan that will aid you, should you find yourself in an unforeseen predicament.