MBOMBELA &#8211; A group of partygoers caused a stir in the early hours of Saturday morning, when their behaviour brought them dangerously close to a brush with the law.The police, however, failed to arrive timeously at the scene in Samora Machel Drive, approximately two blocks from the police station. It apparently started with a Friday night of partying. A concerned call to the Nelspruit Traffic Zello channel led to the bizarre series of events.Eyewitness, Mr Stefan de Villiers, said he noticed a white Volkswagen Polo with a broken rear window and reported it on the channel at approximately 05:30 on Saturday.He and his wife were on their way to the Kruger National Park when the suspicious vehicle swerved all over Samora Machel Drive in the direction of Malalane.At first, it looked like it was going to turn right onto the R40 in Barberton&#8217;s direction. Then it continued straight along the N4 towards Absa Square, driving erratically and straight through a red traffic light,&#8221; he said.Mr Wesley O&#8217;Reilly speaks to one of the passengers in the Volkswagen Polo. The rear window has been smashed in.&#8220;We could see something was not right. There were three people in the car and a woman was driving. When it got closer to the intersection at Paul Kruger Street, the vehicle stopped and its hazard lights came on. I reported it on Zello before driving on.&#8221;Also read: Golf assault inquiry postponed yet againDivergent Ops was the first security company on the scene. Netcare911 also responded to the call. Divergent Ops officers found the man in the front passenger seat. He had been badly beaten up.According to the one of the company&#8217;s supervisors, Mr Rohan Matthee, he was assisting and speaking to the people in the Volkswagen when a brown bakkie stopped at the scene.Mr Wesley O&#8217;Reilly, a friend of the man who had been assaulted, told Lowvelder he was getting a lift home with the bakkie when he recognised the vehicle and wanted to stop to see if he could be of any help.There was a fight in the parking lot at News Caf and I knew my friend in the car had been involved. I jumped off the back of the bakkie and told the guy who was giving me a lift to carry on home,&#8221; the 25-year-old O&#8217;Reilly said.But the driver of the bakkie did not continue on its journey. Instead, according to both O&#8217;Reilly and Matthee, the driver got out of the vehicle and approached the Volkswagen. When Matthee asked him to step back, he allegedly became aggressive and started to assault him.Matthee retaliated and knocked him out with one punch. He then called Divergent Ops head, Mr Jacques Meiring, for advice on how to proceed.When the man was eventually able to get up, he leaned against the bakkie. A pedestrian passing by approached him. &#8220;Please pull up your pants,&#8221; he asked politely, and carried on walking.Meiring arrived to apprehend the suspect for assault.&#8220;We do not encourage our officers to get into physical contact in any situation but in this case, Matthee was acting in self-defence,&#8221; he said.Also read: Man beaten unconscious in front of well-known pubHe called the SAPS to attend to the scene but he said he was told there were no vehicles available as they were busy with a shift change.According to Meiring, a policeman in an unmarked police vehicle stopped to help and assisted him to take the suspect to Mbombela Police Station, where the incident was reported.&#8220;However, after the suspect&#8217;s family spoke to Matthee about the situation, he decided to withdraw the assault charges,&#8221; he added.O&#8217;Reilly drove his friend home in the Volkswagen and then returned for the brown bakkie.News Caf &#8217;s day manager on duty yesterday said she was not aware of any fighting incidents which took place on their premises or in the parking lot of the City Shopping Centre. She was unable to give the newspaper a contact number for any of the staff who were on duty on Friday night or any person who handled media queries. Lowvelder was told to phone back after going to press to speak to the night-duty managers.Meanwhile, Sgt Gerald Sedibe, spokesman for Mpumalanga police, said he would look into the matter.