From the humble but gutsy Lame Mo to the fully fledged Handlebar to the rainbow-dyed upper lip auctioned off to the highest donor moustaches are making waves for men s health.Marked here and around the globe for the past 13 years in 21 countries, Movember sees Mo Bros and Mo Sistas (as they are affectionately known) raise funds and awareness around the often ignored issues of men s health. Prostate and testicular cancer, poor mental health and physical inactivity are some of the biggest health issues facing men today, says Garron Gsell, chief executive and founder of the Men s Foundation, which drives Movember in South Africa.According to the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa), prostate cancer is the most common cancer in black South African men and the second most common in white men. It is estimated that 1 in every 23 South African men who reach the age of 74 will develop this disease.Also read: Mud and Mist at Hyde&#8217;s Movember Funduro&nbsp;In South Africa, there are 23 suicides daily, with over 200 attempts per day. Globally, 510,000 men die from suicide each year. That&#8217;s one every minute. On average five South African men will die from prostate cancer every day and one in 29 men has a risk of testicular cancer. It s simple. We want men to live happier, healthier, longer lives. Our fathers, partners, brothers and friends are facing this health crisis and it s not being talked about. We can t afford to stay silent. We need to talk about it. We need to act. We want men to talk when things get tough, Gsell explains.Through Movember s year-round awareness and education programmes, they encourage men to become more aware of their health, talk more with their friends and be more physically active, improving their health and well-being. Early detection is the most important factor in treating big issues. Know your family history and if you notice something isn t feeling right, don t put it off and hope it goes away. Annual health checks are vital, along with a monthly testicular self-examination which can help make you aware of your body and able to note any changes, Gsell says.There are three ways you can raise funds. Grow a Mo, MOVE or host and attend an event.Also read: Only a prick to detect prostate problems&nbsp;Mo Bros are encouraged to start 1 Movember clean shaven and to grow and groom a moustache for the entire month.Mo Sistas, get behind the Mo Bros in your life, or get a little creative and organise an event. Anything to attract attention and raise funds.How you move is up to you. Whether it s a work out one day, a quick jog at lunchtime the next, an hour at the ping-pong table, or an epic bike ride, no MOVE is too big or small.With the money raised, Movember is funding game-changing programmes, whilst positively challenging the way in which men s health issues are researched and addressed. We re funding over 1,200 men s health projects around the world and counting. In South Africa over the past seven years, more than 120 000 Mo Bros and Mo Sistas have supported the campaign, raising R5.6 million locally toward survivorship and addressed. The key thing about Movember is that we re outcomes-orientated. We re changing the dial in terms of men s lives. We are committed to reducing the number of men dying prematurely. By 2030, we want to even the life expectancy of men and women.&#8221;Don t get left out of what has become the biggest men s health movement of our time. Help change the face of men s health. Grow a Mo. Support a Bro. Commit to MOVE or hold and attend an event. Sign up for free at movember.com. All past Mo Bros need to re-register.For more info, people can download the Movember app on their mobile devices. Follow Movember on social media: @MovemberRSA on Twitter or facebook/MovemberSouthAfrica.