MBOMBELA &#8211; This was not the first year radiographers, mammographers and other members of the staff from the two medical facilities have raised funds for a good cause.&#8220;It all started when one of our colleagues was diagnosed with breast cancer about five years ago. It hit so close to home. We went through it all with her; when she started to lose her hair, we all cut ours into short styles. Most of those who did, still have short hair today,&#8221; said radiographer mammographer, Dr Joekie Lottering.Also read: A colourful fun run for a worthy causeOctober was Breast Cancer Awareness Month and those who came in for a mammogram during that time, qualified for a 10 per cent discount. According to Lottering, many people who did come for a routine check-up in October, needed to undergo a biopsy procedure.It just shows that no one is too special for this disease. The earlier we can diagnose it, the better,&#8221; Lottering added.Mammography is the study of the breast using X-rays while the actual test is called a mammogram. A biopsy is a procedure to remove a piece of tissue or a sample of cells from your body so that it can be analysed in a laboratory.Nelspruit Hospice is a non-profit organisation which provides quality home-based palliative care to people with life-threatening illnesses, like cancer.Although there is no in-patient unit in Mbombela, the organisation provides the services of professional nurses, caregivers, companions and bereavement support at the patient&#8217;s home.Also read: Fish for a good causeHenriette Siekers of Nelspruit Hospice, said the donation would be used to support the patients with better equipment and nursing services.&#8220;We provide practical, down-to-earth and hands-on care, and we want to help as many families as we can. Any help is greatly appreciated,&#8221; she said.Dr Elna Williams, a radiographer based at Nelmed Medicross, said the mammographers work on a rotation basis between the two facilities, which is why the staff have come together to raise funds.&#8220;We have given our donation to the same organisation for the past few years but we recently heard that Nelspruit Hospice was really struggling and we decided to change things a bit.&#8221;They are the people that look after our loved ones when they are terminally ill. It is an invaluable service which needs all the support it can get,&#8221; she said.The funds were raised through internal raffles for donated items which included a book and restaurant voucher, a handmade blanket and a home-made chocolate cake. Williams said there were also bracelets and bandannas for sale.*For more information about mammography, contact Dr Rachel Ballard, head mammographer at the Female Wellness Clinic, Mediclinic Nelspruit, on 013-745-7141.The team at the Female Wellness Clinic, Mediclinic Nelpsruit is (front) Melinda Marais, An Fritz, Brenda van Niekerk, Henriette Siekers, (back) Ron l Kirsten, Joekie Lottering, Andrea van den Berg, Louise Hamman and Marietjie Greyling.