If South Africa follows the World Health Organisation&#8217;s (WHO) guidelines on the packaging and labelling of tobacco products, this is what your packet of cigarettes will look like:The WHO wants cigarettes to look as unattractive as it is unhealthy.If activists had their way, smokers would get locked up for lighting up.Rumours about smoking being declared illegal and parents being dragged to court for smoking in front of their children do the rounds regularly. But what is the truth about South African law and smoking?Legislation governing South African smokers has tightened considerably since 2000 when the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act banned smoking in public places. Smoking in partially enclosed public places were prohibited in 2009. This Act prohibited smoking while using public transport of any kind. Smoking in cars with passengers younger than 12 was also declared illegal. And the rest are rumours or not yet enforceable concepts- for now.Who enforces these rules? The Department of Health is tasked with enforcing this legislation. Yet, the enforcement thereof is minimal and ineffective. This is according to Arthur van Coller, the head of the Department of Public Law at the University of Fort Hare&#8217;s school of law. He wrote this in a paper titled &#8220;Smokers aren&#8217;t the only ones who smoke&#8221; that was published last year. In it, Van Coller expounded on the health risks inherent to being a minor passenger in a smoker&#8217;s car.Why is smoking in the presence of a young child in a car dangerous? Think of your average bar&#8217;s smoking area. Now multiply the smoke hovering mid-air by 11. Prop your toddler&#8217;s car seat up and watch him take a deep breath. If you have smoked one cigarette in an enclosed vehicle today, your passengers may have been exposed to between seven and 11 times the level of smoke found in an average smoker-friendly bar. That is according to Canadian scientists Taryn Sendzik, Geoffrey Fong and Andrew Hyland&#8217;s 2009 article titled, &#8220;An experimental investigation of tobacco smoke pollution in cars&#8221;, published in the Nicotine &amp; Tobacco Research Journal.When in the presence of a smoker, non-smokers are exposed to the smoke burning from the end of a cigarette.When you take a puff&#8230;This is called second-hand smoke and, according to CANSA&#8217;s website, contains poisonous elements such as acetone (also found in paint stripper), naphthalene (in mothballs), butane (in lighter fluid), arsenic (in ant poison), ammonia (in toilet cleaner), phenol (in disinfectant) and carbon monoxide (in exhaust fumes).According to the organisation, such exposure increases a baby or child&#8217;s risk of sudden infant-death syndrome, ear infections, poor lung development, bronchitis and pneumonia, asthma, coughing and wheezing and respiratory problems later in life. The amount of second-hand smoke inhaled by non-smokers depend on factors such as how close they are positioned to the smoker, the ventilation of the space they are in, and their ability to avoid the fumes. These factors were listed in the 1991 edition of Modern Medicine of South Africa.&#8230;she inhales your smoke.When a child is placed in the back of a smoking parent&#8217;s car, Van Coller pointed out that the youngster finds himself in a confined space with limited ventilation and barely any ability to avoid being there, as parents are mostly responsible for transporting their children.Theoretically, South Africa&#8217;s laws cater for the protection of children in such circumstances. Section 28 of the Constitution&#8217;s Bill of Rights and the Children&#8217;s Act dictates that the best interests of the child should direct the conduct of those responsible for him under all circumstances. Section 24 of the Constitution states that we are all entitled to an environment (expressly acknowledging the chemical components surrounding us) that does not harm our health and well-being. In terms of the Tobacco Products Control Act, anyone who smokes in a private vehicle where a minor is present, is guilty of an offence and liable to a conviction or a fine of up to R500.As the Department of Health does not generally deploy officials to enforce this legislation, Van Coller suggested that the stipulations of the the Traffic Control Act be implemented to enable traffic officials to do so. Section three of the Act authorises traffic officials to flag down motorists, obtain their information and inspect their cars if it is suspected that they are contravening a law. The same Act authorises the MEC to appoint as many staff members needed for the operational requirements of these units. However, he suggested that the restriction on smoking in vehicles where minors are present should be included in the Traffic Control Act&#8217;s Regulations, enabling traffic officers to enforce them.Also read: Traffic fines and the law &#8211; what you must know. Also read: The law and social media &#8211; what you must know.