NASA s Clean Air Study found that the plants below are effective at filtering out pollutants and toxic chemicals in the air in your home or office.If you use low quality and toxic detergents and cleaners in your home, this plant can help filter the air in your kitchen.This plant is useful in eliminating airborne fecal-matter particles. It is also great for a smokers environment. Its ability to soak up carcinogens from second-hand smoke helps to purify small areas.The perfect fit for any laundry or bathroom, the Peace Lily specializes in the removal of mold spores. The plant itself does not require large amounts of water or sunlight to survive. In addition to mold, the plant is also known to remove formaldehyde and trichloroethylene. (Warning: The Peace Lily is known to be extremely toxic to cats if they consume it.)The Bamboo Palm is recognized as one of the best at filtering out benzene and trichloroethylene, both of which can regularly creep into living spaces. The bamboo palm is also great next to pieces of furniture that may be prone to off-gassing formaldehyde, another toxin it can naturally handle well.What truly makes the Chinese Evergreen cool is the development of its effectiveness. The more time the plant spends in a space, the more effective it becomes at removing the air pollutants and toxins of the area.The Aloe Vera plant is incredibly easy to grow and maintain, and like many of its counterparts is wonderful for filtering out air pollutants and toxins.This beautiful flower cleans the air, removes unwanted odours, kills bacteria and also helps to keep moths away.The Spider Plant requires natural light but shouldn t be exposed directly to the sun. They sequester carbon monoxide so a kitchen is a great place for them. You can make more plants from this plant as it grows baby versions of itself.This plant scores very highly in removing toxins and pollutants from the inside of homes. It is especially tough on formaldehyde.The Snake Plant does its work at night. It sucks in carbon dioxide and releases oxygen during the night, helping people sleep better. Many choose to keep it in their bedroom or carpeted living room. It can even prevent the formaldehyde that leaks from carpets and wood furniture from hanging around in the air.