 MBOMBELA – Election Day in Mpumalanga was peaceful and without much controversy. The ANC has retained control of each of Mpumalanga’s 17 local municipalities, as it had predicted. The results for the council of what will soon become the City of Mbombela municipality showed that out of the 90 seats the ruling ANC won 69 seats. The DA increased the 10 seats they previously held in Mbombela Local Municipality by three more to have a total of 13. New actors also had a strong showing. The EFF won six, the Residence Association of South Africa one and the VF Plus one. Where the ACDP and PAC previously each held a seat in Mbombela, their support stood at 0,37 and 0,15 per cent each. Executive mayor Cllr Sibusiso Mathonsi said the ANC would retain all its wards. “We are quite happy about that. We had no serious threats.” Mr Sibusiso Nkosi, spokesman for the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) said the participation by voters was good. “It was democracy in action. I am proud of everyone who took the time to queue to cast their votes. Whatever the results are, they will be a true reflection of what people wanted.” The ANC lost support in Thaba Chweu Municipality (TCM). It dropped from 72,6 per cent of the vote in 2011, to 62,03 per cent this year. The DA’s increased from 19,98 per cent in 2011 to 24,21 per cent. The EFF’s 7,32 per cent was enough to secure the party two seats, while the Bushbuckridge Residents Association (BRA) won one. The party’s Mr Cleopas Maunye said the seat indicated they were making progress. In Nkomazi Local Municipality, the ANC led with 82,86 per cent of the vote, slightly down from 89,43 in 2011. It won them 54 seats. The EFF was next with seven seats, followed by the DA with four. BRA made inroads in Bushbuckridge. BRA, which aimed to win control this year, got 18,09 per cent and 14 seats, an increase on the 9,84 per cent which earned it seven seats in 2011. The EFF got four seats, the DA three. The African People’s Convention (APC) and COPE, each held three in 2011, but lost support. The APC retained two seats, and COPE none. The EFF’s provincial leader Mr Collen Sedibe said his party had shown an increase in its support over the 2014’s general elections. “We hope we will have a double-digit number by the end of counting. You can only make a success through growth,
instead of decline.”