Support services: The public safety sector deals with people from all walks of life. Which means they also have to efficiently process high volumes of information and cater to diverse demographics to ensure the highest level of service to the public. Support services can include anything from language to logistical services, and to information management and legal services. Human Resource Management: People who work in public safety, especially those who are out in the field on stressful assignments, are expected to support people who go through traumatic situations. But who takes care of these officers?  Human resources is vital in making sure many stay mentally and physically healthy and adequately trained to tackle all they are exposed to. Internal Stability: Civil unrest is not something foreign to South Africa, but it’s also important to have people trained to prevent and manage these situations before they escalate. Community relations: The relationship between police and the communities they work in is a high priority matter. The way the public sees the South African Police Service dictates the way they relate to their officers, which means those tasked with establishing those good relationships and perceptions have a big job to do. Visible policing: This division may specialise in less serious crimes, but they are often your first point of contact whenever you need help, which makes their role one of the most pertinent. This includes emergency services and traffic policing. Crime combatting and investigative services: It is not as glamorous as the TV series CSI, but if it’s action you crave, crime and investigation is a career for you. After the difficult job of combing through evidence, investigating and eventually giving victims closure or putting a criminal behind bars – the hard work makes it worth it. If keeping people safe is something you feel passionately about, consider enrolling in one of the courses at Lyceum College which offers degrees and diplomas from traffic  policing to criminal justice and law enforcement. You could be on your way making a significant contribution to your country and community. They have recently launched a Bachelor of Arts in Disaster Management to their offering of programmes which allow you to go into both the public and private sector. Find Lyceum College on Facebook.