MBOMBELA &#8211; When Emnotweni concludes 2016 with a spectacular night of glamour on December 31, top-notch entertainment won&#8217;t be the only item on the menu. With entertainment, dancing, and bubbly, Emnotweni invites guests to welcome 2017 with an unforgettable evening of Glitz and Glam and extravagant fun.To close the year with a festive bang, guests will be treated to decadent food, prepared specially by Emnotweni s executive chef, Chef Thomas Grove. He will be serving a four-course meal for guests throughout the evening.First on the menu is a plated starter of fresh cold Carpaccio, as well as a selection of salads and breads. The buffet main meal will include hot selections such as roast leg of lamb and butter chicken. A variety of decadent desserts will top off the magnificent culinary experience. Just before the clock strikes midnight, guests will be treated to a complimentary glass of bubbly to ring in the New Year.With a career that spans over 16 years, Chef Thomas Grove is a veteran in the culinary and hospitality industry. His career started at the Prue Leith Chef&#8217;s Academy, where he graduated with a Grande Diploma with Merit and also received the Fellowship Award. He is currently the executive chef at the Emnotweni Complex, having joined Tsogo Sun in 2013. After leaving Emnotweni in 2015 to pursue his own business ventures, Chef Thomas returned this year in May.Chef Thomas favourite meal to cook is Lamb Ribs over the coals, with an ice-cold beer to wash it down. His dream guest for a dinner party is his food hero, French chef Raymond Blanc. For guests planning a trip to Emnotweni, I would recommend the famous Explorers burger and the new themed buffets on Fridays, he says.Join Chef Thomas at the Midnight Glitz at Emnotweni, for an experience of a lifetime with mouth-watering dishes and class-actentertainment.Tickets for the event are available at R250 per person through Computicket or www.emnotweni.co.za. Emnotweni Rewards cardholders are eligible for up to 20 per cent discount on tickets. The extravaganza starts at 19:00.