HOEDSPRUIT &#8211; Mr Silence Mabunda (37) sustained multiple injuries on December 14 after he was hit by a car. Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, confirmed that a case had been opened and a warrant of arrest for the suspect, Mr Mark Scott-Crossley, had been issued on December 21. Scott-Crossley has not yet been found.Mabunda spoke to Lowvelder about his ordeal. It was at about 19:00 when he went to a nearby filling station shopping complex after knocking off from work with his colleagues. He told them that they could go ahead as he wanted to buy airtime at the shop first, and that he would catch up with them thereafter. I saw three men outside the shop, but I did not pay attention to them, he said. He claimed that after he left the store his cell phone rang. I answered it, and one of the men standing outside grabbed my phone and smashed it onto the ground. Mabunda asked the man why he damaged the phone, after which, the man allegedly responded in Afrikaans and said, Ek sal jou bliksem, ek wil nie met swart mense praat nie. Mabunda said when he went to pick up his phone from the ground, he heard a car coming towards him.Also read: UPDATE &#8211; All five members of R38 cliff accident rescued I saw the bakkie, and I saw that the man who smashed my phone was driving. I jumped out of the way, but he followed me and ran me over. He then reversed. I did not feel pain, I was in shock. As I tried to get up, the man ran me over again and reversed. I pretended to be unconscious because I knew this man was trying to kill me. So I stayed still in fear that he would drive over me for the third time. Mabunda claimed that he stayed still for awhile, until he was certain that his attacker had fled. He then called for help. He sustained lacerations as well as other injuries. His left knee was twisted in such a way that he needed corrective surgery. The metal structure and pins in his legs results in constant open wounds, which is a hazard for possible infection.Rob Ferreira Hospital has been treating Mabunda since his orthopaedic surgery on December 23. He will most likely spend New Years in the hospital. His family lives in Hoedspruit, making visitations nearly impossible.The father of three is expecting another baby in January, and he is worried that he will miss out on the birth. He is the sole breadwinner and is a general worker at Moholoholo Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre.He remains positive, stating, What man survives a bakkie driving over him and reversing twice, without any broken bones? I survived by God s mercy. He looked after me that day. The suspect was identified as Mark Scott-Crossley.Update &#8211; Mabunda claimed that he could identify Scott-Crossley because when Scrott-Crossley smashed his phone, his friend shouted, &#8220;Mark Scott-Crossley, what are you doing now?&#8221;Scott-Crossley made headlines in 2004 when he allegedly assaulted his employee and threw him to the lions. He was sentenced to life imprisonment, but appealed and got a five year sentence for accessory to murder. In 2010 he was announced a free man.Mabunda claims he had never met Scott-Crossley before, and has no idea why he wanted to kill him. I don t know this man from a bar of soap and if I died, I wouldn t have been able to tell anyone that the man who smashed my phone is the one that ran me over. Read more: Patient attacks Rob Ferreira employee