Your phone can be a tool to capture some great moments this holiday. However, use it wrongly and you&#8217;ll end up with a photo that barely receives one like on social media. These tips, provided by Improve Photography, will help you to drastically improve your selfie-graphic skills: Like with any camera, you need to experiment with different angels. Tilt your head to the left and then the right as you view yourself on your phone s screen. For most of us, one side is more attractive than the other. Also, showing off your best side is generally more interesting than a straight-on shot, too. If your shoulders are parallel to the camera, turn them slightly to the left and then slightly to the right, and see what looks best. Pose in an area with beautiful lighting &#8211; either inside near a window or outside. Gorgeous lighting equals to a more flattering selfie. Perhaps, you just got a new pair of glasses. Frame the photo to accentuate your new spectacles. If you recently had your hair cut and coloured, show it off in your selfie. Or if you just brought home an adorable puppy, pose with your new furry friend. Take a picture of you engaging in a fun activity- snorkeling in the ocean, sitting on a jet ski, or hiking. Throw on a hat, don a wig, or wear sunglasses. Smile, frown, pout or make a silly face (But no, not the duck face!) A full-length mirror works well for this type of selfie shot. Again, angle your body to the left or right, which is generally more flattering than shooting straight on. Holding your camera with one hand is more common, but a little trickier to keep it steady and take a photo. With the iPhone, you can quickly and easily take a picture by hitting either the shutter release button or one of the volume buttons. To completely remove a double chin in your photo, and to accentuate your jaw line, extend your neck forward. This may feel funny, but it will dramatically improve how you look in the photo. Also, shoot from above. Raise the camera slightly above you and then look up to even further accentuate the jaw. And finally, use a quality selfie stick.