The deputy president, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa, said once introduced, the minimum wage will improve the circumstances of the lowest paid. But there are fears from business sectors that an overall minimum wage could have negative consequences on the already high unemployment rate.A panel of experts commissioned by the National Economic Development and Labour Council, including representatives from the treasury, business associations, trade unions and other stake holders, contributed to the discussion.Also read: Angry workers block road in protest for better wagesThe idea is that the minimum wage of R3 500 a month or R20 an hour will be phased in over the next couple of years. It is intended to act as a wage floor and not to replace existing wage-setting processes such as collective bargaining (used to negotiate wages and working conditions for workers earning above the national minimum wage).Panel members emphasised the need to balance poverty and inequality reduction ambitions while securing existing jobs.Cosatu&#8217;s provincial secretary, Mr David Mokoena, said the union views the minimum wage proposal as a step in the right direction but would like to see it match up with the minimum living standard. In this country, the gap between current wages and a living wage is said to be too large to bridge in such a short time.&#8220;We must acknowledge the steps the government has taken. As labour, however, we do not necessarily agree with the figure. We at Cosatu proposed between R4 500 and R5 300, whereas business stakeholders were saying somewhere around R2 000,&#8221; Mokoena explained.The government-appointed task team looked into all the research and came up with R3 500. We will further pursue a better minimum for the poorest of the poor.&#8221;He added that the minimum wage will be introduced to benefit those working in vulnerable sectors like retail, transport, security as well as domestic and farm workers.&#8220;It will not necessarily affect sectors like mining, nursing, the police and teachers. Collective bargaining will still remain in place,&#8221; Mokoena said.&#8220;It must be said that nobody wants to bring in the minimum wage with the intention to destroy jobs. It is intended to relieve poverty. In the end, there will be an increase in consumer demand, an increase in production, the need for further employment and a positive impact on society at all levels.&#8221;Also read: Empty promises trigger protestMr Henri Pieters, director of Stabilis, is not as positive. He is especially concerned about the farming sector. After speaking to some of his clients about the matter, he said the cost of production is already becoming too expensive and the introduction of a minimum wage will have an immediate reaction.&#8220;The argument is that it will increase production in the long run. At this stage, there is just not enough economic growth. Many businesses in the Lowveld cannot afford to give increases, let alone bonuses. If the economy was growing, it could absorb the minimum wage introduction. It is not and companies will have to retrench workers to survive,&#8221; Pieters explained.It&#8217;s just not very good timing. When it comes to farming, the drought has caused the forecast to be really low for the harvest this year.&#8220;In Europe and the United States farmers are subsidised by the government. It doesn&#8217;t work like that here. Farmers must survive with limited government aid for drought relief.&#8221;Mokoena acknowledged the need to look at all sectors individually.&#8220;We would need to look into the income and sustainability of farming businesses. We must be considerate of all these factors. We do not want to destroy without building,&#8221; he said.South Africa faces a massive challenge of poverty, inequality, unemployment and low pay across the economy. According to the findings of the expert panel, the minimum wage &#8220;is one tool among many which could make a significant and rapid difference to the living experiences of almost half of the country&#8217;s workers&#8221;.Read more about the minimum wage proposal here.