SABIE &#8211; Piet Viljoen, a 19-year-old Lowvelder, has fought many battles since his father lost his job four years ago. Over the course of time he became a much-loved church musician in Sabie. However, life recently threw him a challenge that brought him and his fellow worshipers to their knees &#8211; he was diagnosed with cancer. With prayers, faith and the assistance from the community, they believe nothing is impossible.Piet moved from Barberton to Sabie four years ago when his father lost his job. He became part of the Sabie Evangelist Church and joined the music team with his uncle, Pooi Viljoen.Melanie du Plessis was appointed as the musical leader and became close with the members of the team. She took Piet under her wing. During that time, his parents could not find any work, and subsequently had to move to Boksburg where his father was appointed as a security guard.Due to Piet being 18 in grade 10 in 2015, none of the schools in Boksburg were willing to take him in to complete his schooling. Melanie and the pastor helped him get admission into Ho rskool Sybrand van Niekerk, and into a hostel where he could complete his schooling. Various families from the church hosted Piet over weekends, as he was unable to go to his parents.Piet&#8217;s love of drums and worship also played a role in him staying in Sabie as he wanted to be part of the music team on Sundays. He would visit his parents over holidays.He got sick in April, but kept it under wraps until Melanie heard him coughing. She and a member of the church helped to take Piet to a doctor. At first, it appeared that he had the flu, however, in June he developed a lump that was a cause for concern. He had various tests done and took antibiotics, but because he had no medical aid, the process took longer. Piet was treated for tuberculosis, no signs of cancer were picked up in any of the blood tests. In the beginning of November Piet was taken to a private doctor in Mbombela, who took a sample of the lump in his neck. The results confirmed that he had lymphocytes, lymph cancer.Piet went for a biopsy at Themba Hospital last week, but will have to wait two weeks to get the results. Only then will he be able to be treated at Steve Biko Hospital, one of the best oncology units in Gauteng. It has thus not yet been determined whether Piet will undergo chemotherapy, radiation or surgery.In the meantime, a Facebook page has been created to raise funds for Piet as he will need money for accommodation, food, toiletries, and travel expenses when he goes for treatment in the future. Banking details have been provided on the page for anyone who would like to assist.Enquiries: Melanie du Plessis on 079-431-4024 or@FundsforPietViljoen on Facebook.Also read: Medical aid shatters local dancer&#8217;s dream