MBOMBELA &#8211; Bianca Rennison is the province&#8217;s new queen. Mrs Mpumalanga 2016/17 was crowned last Wednesday and the event was nothing less than spectacular. The Casino Royale theme etched into the Emnotweni Arena, with attendees and staff all dressed as the epitome of glitz and glamour. Even the tickets to the event had a hint of perfume on them.A luxury vehicle, Nissan GTR, valued at around R1,5 million, was parked just outside the entrance, with a photographer ready to capture the evening. The event was by no means a cheap one; tickets were R285, and VIP tickets R550. Nonetheless, the hall was filled with supporters of the top 12 finalists.A three-course meal was served, with smoked chicken breast and mango salad for starters, braised beef shanks, steamed vegetables and pomme macaire for the main course. Granadilla cheesecake was enjoyed as desert. Grilled Haloumi on chickpeas, sweet corn, a grilled mushroom layered with baby spinach, mash potato and red peppers were offered as vegetarian dishes.Live entertainment was provided by singer Joanne Fisher Steyn and dancers affiliated with Timeless Productions, with the Casino Royale theme portrayed throughout. An emotional performance sought to raise awareness during the 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Children Abuse, with a cash donation of R24 000 towards Iduc, an organisation founded by Santi Brits.The top 12 finalists represented places all over Mpumalanga, like Witbank, Middelburg, Stofberg, Hazyview, Belfast, White River and Mbombela. They were chosen after intensive interviews to ensure high standards of the pageant.Mrs Mpumalanga were judged in four categories: Interviews, White Dress, Evening Gown and Question on stage. The MCat Scoring system was used to determine the winner, same system competitions like Mrs and Mr South Africa use. Eighty per cent of the final decision was based on interviews and business presentations by the finalists.Also read: Medical aid shatters local dancer&#8217;s dreamThe winners of the evening:Mrs Photogenic 1st Place Marlise VorsterMrs Photogenic 2nd Place Portia PilaneMrs Public Choice Bianca BezuidenhoutMrs Fundraiser Bianca BezuidenhoutMarlise Vorster and Hannelie Kleinhans were awarded places in the top five.Lucia Ochan was second runner-up, and Bianca Bezuidenhout the first runner-up.Diana Jansen, the very first Mrs Mpumalanga, delivered a heartfelt speech, and handed over her reign to her successor with grace. &#8220;I am not glad my reign is over, as I loved every bit of it, but I am so excited to see what our new Mrs Mpumalanga will achieve and I am grateful to have been part of it. I will forever be the first Mrs Mpumalanga.&#8221;Also read: Kidnapped baby returned