STROOP is releasing its own 2017 calendar this month.In production for over two years already, one would not imagine that the production team would have time for anything else. However, true to their reputation as passionate film makers who are just as passionate about raising awareness of this vital issue, the STROOP team aim to leave no stone unturned in their quest to ensure that every South African has an opportunity to get involved.The STROOP calendar includes a selection of prestige images captured by the filmmakers over their two year shoot, taken all over South Africa. Each month shows different facets of the rhino poaching situation, with images from the film.Also see: GALLERY: The Olifants River is in trouble&#8220;The team spent good time scrutinising which images would best do the project justice, and be appreciated by the film&#8217;s supporters&#8221;, said Bonn de Bod, the award winning presenter and co-producer of the film. We didn&#8217;t want the images to be graphic and for people to feel helpless. So the result is a great selection of beautiful images that will give people hope and a real insight into our heroes on the front lines of the rhino poaching crisis.&#8221;The full colour calendar was printed by Burble pix and its now available to order online. What s more is that it is made from environmentally friendly paper that comes from sustainable forestry, and the print technique used is used on a strategy designed to save resources.Also read: Two policemen and four others in court for rhino poachingThrough this, the calendar aims to ensure a renewable supply of materials and preserve biodiversity. It can be ordered on the STROOP Facebook page for only R199, excluding courier costs. A portion of the price goes towards the post production of STROOP, enabling the film to stay independent, and be the definitive rhino film, for you by you.STROOP will release in 2017. Follow our Facebook Page and Twitter feeds for regular updates.Check out the Facebook page. Order the calendar here.