Jake and Noreen are not going away this holiday season. Embracing their empty nest and their children s new found independence, they ve decided to explore the countryside around Johannesburg to see what is on offer.Join them on their biking adventure as they explore the countryside northwest of Johannesburg on their shiny new motorcycle.Not long after dawn, kitted out for the open road, they do a quick final check on the bike to make sure that everything s A for away. They turn the key in the ignition, warm up their new baby and savouring the throaty rumble of the engine, they re off.After some research on the internet they decided to hit the R563 to Hekpoort and Skeerpoort from Hendrik Potgieter Avenue.While doing research they discovered that the Hekpoort mountain pass is Gauteng s biggest pass in terms of distance, altitude gained, as well as the steepest gradient. It is a popular route over the Witwatersberge into the Magaliesberg area for weekend adventure seekers.The building was erected during the South African War by the British Military under the guidance of Major-General G Barton, who commanded British forces in the area in 1901. Known in its time as Barton&#8217;s Folly, it differs substantially from other blockhouses built by the British elsewhere in southern Africa, and formed part of a defensive line which extended from Hekpoort and Maanhaarrand to the Magaliesberg.Barton was a career soldier who served in the Gold Coast, the Zulu War of 1876, Egypt and China. Having been wounded at the Tugela River, he was transferred to Krugersdorp and had to face the military genius of Generals Koos de la Rey and Christiaan de Wet.Black Horse Estate offers an artisanal craft brewery and distillery as well as a quaint restaurant. The brewery is just an hour s scenic drive outside Johannesburg and is situated on the edge of the Magalies River with lush green fields and majestic black horses. Overlooking the breath taking Zeekoeihoek valley, guests can relax and enjoy a meal under the magnificent pecan nut trees. Booking is essential.Van Gaalen Cheese Farm in Skeerpoort, a village at the foot of the Magaliesberg mountains, is a must to visit. They are open six days a week from 8am to 5pm. On Tuesdays they are closed. There is a restaurant and picnic hampers can be arranged for leisurely picnics on the banks of the Skeerpoort river. The picnic hampers must be booked at least a day in advance. Cheese, as well as wine, preserves, souvenirs and a range of Dutch favourites can be bought at the Farm Shop.Why not join us in our conversation! Share your tips and advice by tweeting and including the following hashtag: #DunlopshareyourjourneyFollow Dunlop on Twitter and Facebook, and click here to download your free Dunlop Zone Tyre Tips booklet.