MBOMBELA &#8211; Dennis de Beer, general manager at Emnotweni Casino, says guests will be offered an experience of a lifetime on December 31.&#8220;With class-act entertainment and mouth-watering dishes, the Glitz and Glam event is sure to be etched in our guests&#8217; memories for years to come.&#8221;This is the way in which Emnotweni ends 2016 and welcomes the new year, with the classic &#8220;dinner and a show&#8221;. Entertainment, food, champagne and the opportunity to put on your dancing shoes and get footloose. The evening of Glitz and Glam promises to be unforgettable.Actor and producer Denver Vraagom will be the MC for the night, setting the tone for all the surprises and delights to come. Vraagom is known for his role as Sheldon on 7de Laan and as Jakes in Egoli. He has also made numerous cameo appearances in Scandal, Backstage and Binnelanders.Well-known choreographer Willie Venter from The Producers, will provide high-calibre live entertainment with a troupe of talented dancers. They will perform various dance sets throughout the evening, delivering performances that will leave guests amazed.Entertainer Winray, who is a familiar and favourite face to Emnotweni Casino, will bedazzle guests with his voice and interactive performances. While attendees enjoy the amazing line-up of entertainment, Chef Thomas will be preparing a four-course meal, which will be presented throughout the night. The menu will include carpaccio as a starter, a selection of salads and breads, a buffet main meal and a variety of desserts.Just before the clock strikes midnight, guests will be treated to a complimentary glass of bubbly to ring in 2017. Final entertainment of the night will be courtesy of a DJ, who will be playing music till 02:00 for those itching to the get to the dance floor.Besides a fantastic evening of glitz and glam, Emnotweni is also offering a Stay Safe hotel package to guests. The Stay Safe options include a double room, with breakfast, entry to the Glitz and Glam event as well as R100 casino FreePlay at either the StayEasy, at R1 200, or Southern Sun Emnotweni hotel at R1 600.Tickets for the event are available at R250 per person through Computicket or www.emnotweni.co.za. Emnotweni Rewards cardholders are eligible for up to 20 per cent discount on tickets. The extravaganza starts at 19:00.Enquiries: www.emnotweni.co.za.Also read: Mrs Mpumalanga 2016/2017 crowned at Emnotweni Arena