MBOMBELA &#8211; Let us be honest, packing is not the most exciting thing to do but it is certainly better than unpacking. And if you know how to do it efficiently, it will save you time, trouble, stress and penalty fees for overweight baggage.Here are a few Lowvelder tips to make packing a dream:Roll your clothes This is a fantastic space saver and can keep casual clothes from creasing. Some formal wear should not be rolled but if you do it with most of your clothes, you will be surprised how much extra space you will have in your backpack or suitcase.Use separate bags Use shoe bags and packing organisers. The shoe bags will keep your clothes clean and your shoes in order. The separate packs will also make it much easier to find what you need when you need it.Only pack necessary items Check the weather forecast before you leave and pack accordingly. You do not need to transport your whole closet every time you go on holiday. Also try to plan an outfit or two in advance for each day. Then you will know which top goes with which skirt and which shirt goes with which shorts and you will have just the right number of items. If you are taking a towel along, maybe look into getting yourself a micro-fibre travel towel; it takes up no space and dries extraordinarily quickly.Pack larger items first Place the heavy items at the bottom. Also pack accessories, lighter clothes and other smaller items at the very end.Use the inside of your shoes as extra storage Using every little bit of space in your bag will prove worthwhile in the end. Stuff socks, jewellery and chargers into your shoes and you will save space and protect your possessions.Take small bottles of toiletries Toiletries take up space, especially for women. Of course, you want to have everything with you but why not look at decanting your liquids and creams into smaller containers? By doing this, you may even be able to get away with taking hand luggage if all your bottles and toothpaste tubes contain less than 100 millilitres.Do not forget to place them in a sealable plastic bag to prevent shampoo and conditioner explosions all over your luggage. Although your luggage may smell nice, you will have to send all your clothes to the laundry and will have nothing to wear while on holiday.