This Festive Season is the first one that Jake and Noreen will spend without their kids. Both kids have completed their studies and are going their own way these holidays.Apart from the sadness and inevitable empty nest syndrome, they have decided to embrace this new phase of their lives and to approach it as an adventure.In their young days before they had the children, Jake and Noreen loved biking and road trips. They decided that with the kids away it was the ideal time to rekindle their old passion and to explore the countryside around Johannesburg to see what it has to offer these days.They have spoiled themselves with a shiny new bike and can t wait to test it on the open road.To prepare for their daytrip they have done some research on the internet and discovered that the area around Skeerpoort and Hekpoort northwest of Johannesburg has a lot to offer.Their itinerary includes a scenic mountain pass, a historical blockhouse and some lovely spots to have breakfast and lunch.But before they hit the road there are a few things they need to take into consideration.Wear riding pants, ankle boots, a riding jacket and a full face helmet. Knee and elbow guards should also be considered. Wear earplugs.If you have long hair you don t want it slapping you in the face. Put your hair into a buff or bandana before you put your helmet on.When packing, carry disposable stuff like water bottles that you can discard. Remember to take essential medication.Keeping yourself well hydrated throughout your ride will limit exertion due to dehydration. Drink water every time you stop.Know where you are going, but also be open to exploring places that look interesting. Have a screenshot of the map on your phone or pack a printed map of the area. Ask people about interesting routes and places.Stop to rest and to take in the scenery. Check if you have enough water for drinking and enough fuel.Be prepared for any kind of weather. Pack a rain coat and pants that will fit over your riding gear as well as rain covers for the luggage.A list might include a spare tube, spark plugs, break and accelerator cables and engine oil.Make sure your fluids are fresh and full: Oil Transmission Fluid Primary Fluid Brake Fluid Any other fluids involved in the operation of your motorcycleDo a full electrical check: High beams Low beams Turn signals (L and R) Running lights (front and rear) Brake lights (hand and break levers)Make sure your battery has adequate voltageCheck your brakesMake sure your air and oil filters are cleanCheck your tyre pressureCheck your foot pegMake sure your seat is secure and comfortableWhy not join us in our conversation! Share your tips and advice by tweeting and including the following hashtag: #DunlopshareyourjourneyFollow Dunlop on Twitter and Facebook, and click here to download your free Dunlop Zone Tyre Tips booklet.