Cockroaches Out of the 4 000 species of roaches, only around 30 have pest status. Roaches themselves do not really carry any disease, but they may spread bacteria around your home as they run across your dirty bathroom floor into the kitchen and up into your microwave. Yes, they carry your germs. They actually clean themselves constantly, to get rid of the dirt and germs they ran over in your house. Ants Cleanliness means survival to an ant, as dirty antennas cannot pick up scents. They need their antennas to navigate and communicate. An ant has a metapleural gland that produces antibiotic fluid, which they groom onto their exoskeleton. This helps to prevent bacteria or fungal spores growing on them, and in turn, keeping it out of their nests. Also see: Top Holiday HazardsPigs Pigs are as dirty as their owners allow them to become. In farms they are often kept in pens that become dirty as fecal matter, urine, and old food are not washed away often enough to keep the germs away. Pigs, however, have very few sweat glands, and hardly do so at all. They go into mud pools to place a protective layer over their skin, to serve as sunscreen, and keep them cool. If a pig were to roam in an open field with shade and lots of fresh cool water, they would be less smelly than the farmer who kept them. Bees Bees are meticulous when it comes to their hives. Anything that does not belong, will be shoved out. The queen bee never leaves the hive, and she will be the only thing to use the hive as a bathroom. The rest of the bees will clean her mess up, removing it immediately. Honey is antibacterial, and the bees that carry pollen will groom themselves every couple of hours as particles get stuck between the hairs that cover their bodies. Fish This is a broad statement and does not apply to all fish, but lots of fish species in the ocean are assisted by &#8220;cleaner fish&#8221;, that feed off and remove the ectoparasites and dead skin on the fish. The slime on one is a mechanism to regulate temperature as they move between warmer and colder spots, keep parasites off them, and stunts algae growth.