No one wants to waste good food but let&#8217;s face it, after all the relatives have gone home, you are inevitably left with a fridge full of leftovers. Lowvelder has put together a list of suggestions on how to use your uneaten &#8216;chow&#8217; in healthy and delicious ways.The meat Roast chicken or left-over braai meat can be used in wraps, savoury pancakes or pita breads with an assortment of fillings such as fried onion, cottage cheese, baby spinach or lettuce leaves. This is just one of the easiest meal ideas that makes the ideal summer snack or dinner. Left-over sausage can be finely chopped and mixed with bread crumbs and fresh or dried herbs to make a stuffing. Spoon the mixture into hollowed out peppers or large mushrooms and top with a little grated cheddar cheese and cook them in the oven. Leftover vegetables, gravy and chicken or turkey can be turned into a simple pie. All you need is a layer of pastry on top and voila, another delicious meal. Turkey and potato curry is a delightful way to use up leftovers. You can make it any way you like but perhaps search for an easy recipe online. Fruit chutney is one Lowvelder-recommended ingredient. Use your leftover smoked ham to add savoury flavour to an otherwise ordinary casserole.The veg Steamed or roasted vegetables can be tossed with some salad leaves into a couscous salad and can be eaten hot or cold. Crumble some feta into the mix for added pizzazz. Stuff potato skins with the leftover vegetables and add some feta or other cheese with a sprinkling of bread crumbs and throw them in the oven to get crispy. You can even just add the vegetables and cheese as a baked potato topping &#8211; whatever takes your fancy.The potatoes A breakfast idea is to mash up your leftover roast potatoes and shape them into mini hash browns or potato cakes. What more is there to say than &#8216;yum&#8217;.A general dish idea You can make a quiche from absolutely anything and what better to throw together than some tasty holiday feast leftovers. This is a meal which can be served hot or cold and is loved by most. Beat a few eggs, add some milk and mix in your leftovers &#8211; any meat and/or veg chopped into small pieces &#8211; with some leftover cheese or white sauce. The cheese will add to the texture (you can also use cottage cheese or sour cream if you have some in the fridge). Then pour the mixture into a baking tray or dish and pop it into the oven to bake until the surface is golden brown.