PRETORIA &#8211; Bob Preller has had countless special encounters with elephants. He shares some of these interesting experiences in his self-published book, The Silent Giants of Southern Africa, Including the Desert Giants of the Kaokoveld.Preller and his wife, Annette, lived among elephants for four years in the bushveld during which time he had close interaction with them.This honorary ranger&#8217;s 266-page guide to tuskers includes information about the social habits of elephants and a range of photographs, as well as anecdotes.As part of Lowvelder&#8216;s Pen in my Hand initiative, Preller will be presenting a talk on the silent giants in Mbombela and his research to create a virtual wall to prevent elephants from causing damage on December 8 at the PNA shop in Crossing Centre, Madiba Drive at 17:30 for 18:00.This is an extract from the book in which he explains how a research project inspired by himself uses infrasound and seismic signals to find a means of keeping everyone safe in areas where elephants and humans live together.The camera-shy elephant Shingwidsi, a bull elephant of approximately 30 years old, has a reputation of being irritable and easily frustrated. I attempted to obtain a close-up photograph of Shingwidsi&#8217;s head while he was browsing on the leaves of a buffalo thorn. I stood behind the trunk of another tree, five metres away from Shingwidsi, when he became aware of me focusing on him with my camera. He became clearly irritated by my presence and ,with his trunk, scooped up a load of sand and with perfect aim threw the sand over me, covering me and the camera from head to toe in sand. He then waited a few seconds to see what my reaction was and then retreated.Kicking a block into oblivion The salt block had become a round rock ball because of constant licking and chopping by the game. Shingwidsi had an urge for some salt and attempted to crush the salt ball with its one front foot. This did not work. He then trampled on the ball with both front feet putting his full weight on it. Still he could not crush it. He picked it up with his trunk and put it to his mouth but it was too big and fell to the ground. He tried again. Again it fell to the ground. Irritated and frustrated by the situation, he kicked the salt ball with his back foot away from him. Not satisfied, he backed up further and this time slogged with all his strength so that it rolled out of his sight. Amazing! Thereafter he totally ignored the salt block.