MBOMBELA &#8211; Santa Claus is a legendary figure. He was first acknowledged in European cultures and is known worldwide today. He is a man of many names &#8211; Saint Nicholas, Saint Nick, Kris Kringle, Kersvader and Sinterklaas, to name a few.Children identify him in his thick red Santa suit, as most countries do not stray from this image. Santa is known to make &#8220;naughty&#8221; and &#8220;nice&#8221; lists, delivering gifts to the children who are well behaved. Legend has it that naughty kids run the risk of getting a lump of coal.Father Christmas is a Victorian figure whose appearance has varied. He has at a time worn a green coat instead of red. Saint Nicholas was a Greek Christian bishop of Myra in the fourth century after Christ. It has been said that he dedicated his life to Christianity, bringing gifts to the poor and granting three girls with dowries so they would not have to become prostitutes.Also read: Teen in dire need of fundsWe know modern-day red-and-white Santa s helpers to be elves, but in Dutch culture, they are called Zwarte Pieten.Lowvelder got hold of a couple of local versions of Santa, to get the inside scoop on what our children can expect this year. Most of the kids have been really good this year, so I have a lot of charcoal I m not using. Since no kid in the Lowveld is getting coal, I m going to braai with it. I might make an appearance at someone s house, on Christmas, but I can t stay long. I don t want my meat to burn on the braai, said one Santa. Who knows, maybe he will show up at your Christmas party?Our Santa&#8217;s are special, humble people. None of them want to spill too much personal details. One reasoned that divulging who he is or where he lives, may result in harassment or stalking. &#8220;Just know that the various versions of Santa are everywhere. One may even be your grandfather,&#8221; a chubby man with a friendly face remarked, winking.Santas receive letters from kids who write them, but one is particularly fond of WhatsApps and emails, as his post office is always on strike. My elves checks out social media too, I have eyes everywhere, so I know who is up to no good and who is working hard, he said.Also see: Video &#8211; two lion cubs and a stick Some Santas have other, more regular jobs during the rest of the year. But wherever they go, their love for children goes with them. My Christmas present would be the smiles of the children, and a kiss from my wife, Mary Christmas. then I will be happy, oh, and a new pair of boots, because my Rottweiler, Rudolph, chewed mine,&#8221; one said.