HAZYVIEW &#8211; Those who were looking to renew or apply for drivers and vehicle licences were left wanting outside the Hazyview licensing office. Some waited for hours before going home when the doors remained closed.Snake repellent was reportedly sprayed on the premises before business could resume as usual on Tuesday.The fear of snakes is very real in the Lowveld community especially during the summer months because they have been known to look for cooler places to hide such as homes, offices and outbuildings.There is a suspicion among some people that snakes bring bad luck.Also read: Municipality debt shuts down licensing officesMr Neels Luus arrived at the municipal offices around 09:00 to renew his private and business vehicle licence as well as that of his trailer. He had planned to go on holiday the following day. He saw the long queue and went to find out what was happening.&#8220;The staff said there was a snake inside. I said I had no problem going in to catch it, and attempted to find someone with the key to let me in. I was told that the Nelspruit branch had already been phoned to send someone out to deal with the issue,&#8221; Luus said.&#8220;I then went to Mbombela for business and came back. The offices were still closed and the same people were still waiting outside, a lot of them were elderly. It was frustrating as I could see the cleaners going in and out but they wouldn&#8217;t open up.&#8221;The Mbombela licensing office was closed in July due to a paper shortage.Ms Elsie Janse van Rensburg, ward councillor for Hazyview, said she tried to get through to the switchboard for the Hazyview municipal offices without luck.She then phoned municipal manager, Mr Noko Seanego, to find out what could be done about the situation.&#8220;He agreed with me that the situation was unacceptable. He phoned and I was included on the conference call, to ask that the offices be opened and Mr Luus be let in to find the snake,&#8221; Janse van Rensburg said.Meanwhile, Mr Jason Stewart, known in the Lowveld as the snake guy, said he was called from the Reptile Park at Perry&#8217;s Bridge by a traffic officer to look for a snake at the licensing office at about 09:30 or 10:00 on Monday.&#8220;I was told that the snake had been spotted by a security guard at 02:00, but he had already gone off duty. I didn&#8217;t think I would find anything but I had a thorough look through the rooms and moved furniture around. I found no sign of the snake,&#8221; Stewart said. Also read: Licences cannot be issued due to paper shortageThe Hazyview licensing offices remained closed for the entire day. Luus returned once more in the afternoon to find the offices deserted. He had to delay his holiday by a day.&#8220;It is such an inconvenience. I have to leave a day later because my licences will expire while I am on holiday, and trying to explain this whole story every time I get stopped at road blocks will be more of a hassle than it is worth,&#8221; he said.Janse van Rensburg told Lowvelder she thinks the municipality should prepare for situations like this, to inform people who phone in and get no answer.&#8220;The fact is, we need to deliver services to the people. It is as simple as that,&#8221; she said.When the paper phoned the Hazyview licensing office on Tuesday, doors were open for business as usual. A man on the switchboard said snake repellent had been sprayed in the offices. Attempts to obtain an official comment from the municipality before going to press were unsuccessful.