HAZYVIEW &#8211; The community has rallied behind a 64-year-old woman and her son who lost all their possessions when their house caught fire and burned down on Monday night.Ms Vivian Mackay said they were lucky not to have been home at the time. They were visiting her brother.There was no one in the house.The cause of the fire is still unknown but she said her neighbours told her they heard what sounded like fire crackers. When they went out to investigate, a raging fire was consuming the house.The fire sparked a massive display of community spirit, with neighbours and passers-by rallying to help fight the blaze. They used buckets of water to try and put out the flames. However, their efforts were unsuccessful.Ms Vivian Mackay.The total extent of the damage has not yet been determined but Mackay said her ID book, passport and family photo albums were all inside the house.Also read: Fire safety tips &#8211; Stay safe this winterWhen Lowvelder visited what remained of the structure Mackay used to call her home, smoke was still coming out of the thatch and the remains of the burned furniture. The yard was littered with debris.Donations of food, basic household goods and other items have been flooding in. Neighbours and concerned community members have assisted Mackay with clothes.&#8220;The Hazyview community has been very loving to me. The Kiepersol Methodist Church also assisted us with a lot of necessities,&#8221; she said.Also read: VIDEO: Lily Mine CEO discusses rescue plan&#8220;Everyone was willing to assist. The tragedy reminded me of how much people care for one another, it was a great display of love,&#8221; she said.Mackay pleads with people to assist her with building materials to rebuild her home.&#8220;My bond was fully paid and I didn&#8217;t have insurance. I don&#8217;t even know where to start, to reassemble the house,&#8221; she said.Also read: Boven burns after police allegedly shot pupil The distraught Mackay said she will appreciate any assistance. People can contact her on 076-837-5015 for donations or contact her neighbour, Michelle Immelman on 082-412-2641.