MBOMBELA &#8211; Believe it or not, there are ways to travel at a minimum cost.Flights, especially within or from South Africa, will almost always be one of the most expensive parts of your trip. This is not going to change anytime soon. And there is no way for us to influence the price of international flights. So let us take a look at a few things we can control which will allow us to travel &#8216;on the cheap&#8217;.1. Do your research Read as many travel and personal blogs as you can before you leave for your destination. It is wonderful what you can find out about a place from other travellers. You will also find tips about what to do and what to avoid, how to get through the border without hassle and which areas to stay in. You might also want to think about travelling in low season as you can find some great deals on tour packages, accommodation, flights and hired car costs during this time. If you are hitting a popular tourist spot, it might be less crowded too. And that is an added bonus.2. Pack as little as possible For some, over-packing is the greatest travel challenge. The key is to work out what you really need and leave the rest at home. If you are flying with budget airlines, this will really help you to save money. If you are not going away for a long time, see if you can stick to carry-on luggage only and skip all the add-on fees.3. Make a budget It is good to have a vague guideline of what you are willing to spend. Allot a certain amount of money to each day of your trip and try not to go too far over that sum, if possible. It is easier said than done and you will inevitably exceed it but it will help to keep track of how (and where to) your money is fast disappearing.4. Choose your accommodation carefully There are so many accommodation options out there, from couch surfing to house sitting or renting an apartment for the weekend. If you prefer something a little more traditional, broaden your search to booking sites as well as the direct website of the accommodation type you are looking at. Whether you are looking for a youth hostel, a bed and breakfast, a hotel or self-catering options, there are always good deals if you are willing to take the time to find them.5. Eat affordably Do not be afraid to sample the local cuisine. If you try to find food that you usually eat at home, it could get expensive and you will miss out on half the travel experience. Sometimes, you will find that the little street restaurant in the alleyway serves some of the most delicious food you have ever tasted. If you are visiting another country, make sure to check what the deal is with tipping staff. In some places, tipping is expected. In others, it is offensive. And in many restaurants, the service charge is already included in the bill. Self-catering is an option for longer periods too. There is no need to eat every meal at a restaurant if you have kitchen facilities at the place you are staying. This will save you many bucks each day which you will be able to spend elsewhere.