MBOMBELA &#8211; Christmas shopping is down at the mall and shop tenants are upset due to the chaos created by the delay in the completion of the project. The terminus is part of a multimillion rand programme to develop a public-transport hub in the Mbombela CBD. It was supposed to be completed in August 2015, but instead construction has stood still for three months.The subcontractor claims he has not been paid and the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) says he has.According to spokesman for the municipality, Mr Joseph Ngala, the construction of the taxi rank began in August 2014, with the expected completion date set for a year later.When the project ran behind schedule, CMLM granted the main contractor, LBMC Consulting, an extension to get the job done.What happens in contract work is the municipality sets a target and if that target is not met, there are penalties for the contractor,&#8221; Ngala said.&#8220;We stepped in out of concern to find out what was happening, as a delay in a project of this nature impacts negatively on the municipality&#8217;s work.&#8221;Ngala said CMLM had been sent proof by LBMC Consulting, a Johannesburg-based company, showing that an amount of R1,5 million was paid to a subcontractor, AJW Steel, for the steel work on structures at the terminus.&#8220;The subcontractor is lying if he says he has not been paid. We have a paper trail showing that he has. He must have misused the funds for something other than the project and now he cannot pay his workers,&#8221; Ngala said.Mr Bonang Moletsane, owner of LBMC Consulting, would not speak to the newspaper. He referred all enquiries to CMLM.Also read: Still no holiday home R5,5 million later Mr John Hutchinson of AJW Steel told Lowvelder a different story. He said he has not been paid the full amount by LBMC Consulting and is unable to complete the project without funds owed to him.Please help us. We have all the material but the main contractor doesn&#8217;t want to pay. We abandoned site around three months ago. I had to tell the workers to go home. It affected about 40 people and we are suffering at Christmas time,&#8221; he said.Hutchinson said he was owed R800 000 plus an additional R550 000 to hire a crane for the duration of the contract. To complete the work, he said he needs approximately R300 000.&#8220;The completion of this project would be so good for the city. It would bring so many jobs for people. Unfortunately, there is so much red tape involved. The main contractor and his allies at the CMLM are making us (AJW Steel) look like we are on the wrong side,&#8221; Hutchinson told Lowvelder.He added that it seems LBMC Consulting was paid the full project fee upfront.Mr Fred Kinnear, owner of Canary Walk Mall, which is located next door to the taxi-terminus site, said he just wants the project finished as soon as possible.&#8220;We started building the mall in 2014 when they were already busy with construction of the taxi rank next door. Many businesses were interested in having their shops here and were under the impression that taxi terminus would be finished soon,&#8221; Kinnear said.&#8220;It should have been completed last year. Even the taxi owners are jumping up and down. We have had various meetings with the municipality&#8217;s project manager, Mr Velly Mapaila, and we were promised it would be finished in April, then June and then August. It is now November and the project is still incomplete.&#8221;Kinnear added that some tenants are complaining as they are not getting the number of feet through their doors as they originally expected.We want this to be finished and are willing to help out in whichever way we can, but we have to sort out who is going to pay for it,&#8221; he said.Ngala said he the municipality would be paying a new subcontractor directly to complete the steel work.&#8220;Quality Steel will be paid using the penalties collected from the main contractor. The project is hoped to be complete by mid-January 2017,&#8221; Ngala explained.Also read: See what premier s delegation is up to in Russia! When this paper visited the construction site in the middle of the day last week, it found most of the lights on in the completed, but empty, office building. Security guards were unable to give a reason for this.Ngala said it was unacceptable for electricity to be used unnecessarily and that he would follow up the matter.&#8220;In the night, it may be necessary for safety and security to prevent vandalism and vagrancy. The project has not been handed over to the municipality but we always urge all members of the public to be responsible consumers, so we will make sure there is no further wastage,&#8221; he said.See the gallery below for more photographs of the taxi terminus site: