Nomzamo Khumalo is a trendy 28-year old Joburg Marketing Manager. During the year she spends most of her time working and keeping up with the demands of her stressful job. She has little time to spend with friends and family as she travels constantly and barely has time to plan a holiday. This year she has promised herself to do something different and liberating, to go on a road trip by herself to Magaliesburg.It is never easy preparing for a two-week long adventure to Magaliesburg from Johannesburg but Nomzamo has found some gems along the way that will keep her rejuvernated and occupied. Her itinerary includes visiting The Sterkfontein Caves, Buffelspoort Dam, Cradle of Humankind as well as a ride on the Magaliesburg Express where she will experience the golden age of steam trains. It s her 29th birthday and she also plans to meet friends for a spa retreat before returning back to Johannesburg.A checklist for this type of holiday can be vast. Leave days booked? Check. holiday itinerary? Check. Holiday accommodation? Check. All that s left is working out their route from Johannesburg to Magaliesberg and checking that her vehicle is ready for a long-distance trip. She makes sure her Land Rover is serviced and ready to embark on a long drive into the hills.Here are some of the things Nomzamo has to check to ensure she has a smooth and stress-free journey.A car s maintenance schedule is like going to the doctor for an annual check up, you shouldn t try to avoid it or it will cost you more in the long run. Luckily for Nomzamo, the last time her car was serviced was a few months ago and the car s major issues have been fixed. All she has to do is review and double check that everything is still in running order and fix anything that needs to be fixed.Cars are much like human beings in that their bodies need fluids to function. Nomzamo needs to make sure the car has enough oil to lubricate the engine, antifreeze (coolant) to regulate its temperature, and washer fluid to maintain good visibility. It only takes a few minutes to check all of these things.One of the most important things to check before going on a road trip is the tyres of the car. Nomzamo needs to make sure that her tyres are inflated properly, that they have a spare tyre and that she has checked the tyre load rating on the side.Once the tyres are checked, the brakes need to be checked. When she checks the brakes she should listen to hear if there is any excessive grinding or squeaking. If there is, it may be time for new brake pads. Most cars have a brake warning light to indicate a problem with your brake system but if it s not evident, there s a plastic tank in your engine you can check for brake fluid. Nomzamo has to make sure the fluid is on it&#8217;s full mark before going on the road trip.One of the things that can get overlooked is whether the battery of the car is charged. Nomzamo has to check if the positive and negative terminals on the top or side of the battery have a lot of corrosion. If so, they can use baking soda and water to neutralize the acid on the terminal to clean it. This shouldn&#8217;t be the case since she has had her car serviced recently.Here are some of the documents the family would need to travel with: Nomzamo also has to make sure she has the following emergency equipment on board:For more car or tyre care tips and advice, follow Dunlop on Twitter and Facebook, and click here to download your free Dunlop Zone Tyre Tips booklet.Why not join us in our conversation! Share your tips and advice by tweeting and including the following hashtag: #Dunlopshareyourjourney