To help South Africans navigate the country&#8217;s airports during this high-traffic period, Flight Centre Travel Group (FCTG), has compiled a Guide to Navigating South Africa s Airports During The Festive Season . While people are looking forward to the holidays, travelling to their destinations can be incredibly stressful. For many, it feels like they have to plan their trip with military precision to avoid getting completely overwhelmed by the crowds, queues, security checkpoints, customs officials, baggage restrictions and the documents you need, not to mention the additional documents you need if you re travelling with children. That s why we ve compiled this guide to help travellers cope, says FCTG retail general manager, Marieke Tucker.Lees ook: My 10 gunsteling plekke in die Kruger WildtuinOne of the busiest periods will be December 16 to 20 when most South Africans are expected to make their way to their Christmas destinations.But travellers shouldn t panic. Our guide will help make flying this December a breeze, says Tucker. Here s what to do &#8211; and what not to do &#8211; for a stress-free journey this festive season: 1. Make sure your passport is valid for up to six months and has two blank pages if you are travelling abroad.2. Ensure you have the correct visas for travel, inclusive of transits. Also make sure you have all the necessary documentation for your travel, including vouchers if applicable.3. If you are travelling abroad with children under 18, make sure you have their unabridged birth certificate/s, which lists the details of both parents. If you are travelling alone with a minor, you also need consent in the form of an affidavit (not more than three months old) from the other parent, authorising you to enter and depart from South Africa with the child/ren. If you re travelling locally with minors, make sure you are in possession of their birth certificates or identity documents.4. Check-in online 24 hours before your flight so you can select your seat and buy yourself some time in case you are delayed. Ensure that you arrive at the airport three hours prior to the departure of your international flight, as stipulated. Allow two hours in advance for a domestic flight. Make your way directly to the check-in counter when you arrive in case there are long queues or computer-system delays.5. Ensure that your name on the ticket is spelled correctly. You will not be allowed to board the flight if it is incorrect.6. If you ve made a flight booking online, make sure you have the credit card you used to pay for your ticket in your possession. If someone else paid for your flight, ensure that you have a copy of the credit card used to pay for the booking.7. Don t forget to carry identification if you are flying locally. Either an ID or a driver s licence will suffice, but an ID is preferable.Also read: Still no holiday home R5,5 million later8. Make certain that your cabin baggage or hand luggage is not too heavy or bulky. You are allowed one bag (weighing not more than seven kilogram and with maximum dimensions of 56cm x 36cm x 23cm), plus one slimline laptop bag/handbag per passenger. Hand-baggage limits are often strictly enforced during peak times and on packed flights.9. Do not carry any liquids or creams exceeding 100 millilitres (including bottled water) in your hand luggage if you are taking an international flight, as these will be confiscated. You do not want to lose your brand-new bottle of perfume before you have even given it one spray.10. Do not carry any sharp objects (including nail files, nail clippers and knives) in your hand luggage as these will also be confiscated.11. Pack a change of clothing, underwear and a toothbrush in your hand luggage in case your checked baggage goes missing or is delayed. Also carry a change of warm clothing in your hand luggage (hat, coat, gloves) if you are travelling to the northern hemisphere.12. Make sure when travelling to the US that you have the applicable TSA approved security locks on your bags. Also consider bubble-wrapping your check-in luggage for added security. Tie a ribbon or colourful tag to your luggage for easy identification on the baggage carousel.13. If you do not want to incur exorbitant roaming costs while travelling abroad, check with your cell-phone provider on how to change your phone settings to either only allow SMS roaming or access-only Wi-Fi while overseas. You need to do this before you leave South Africa or you run the risk of incurring high costs.14. Make sure you have an international driving permit and your South African driver s licence if you intend hiring a rental car abroad. You need your South African driver s licence to hire a car locally. A valid credit card is required for car hire locally and abroad.15. Consider using the Gautrain if you are in Johannesburg as traffic is likely to be congested en route to and at the airport, which may cause delays. Alternatively, take a taxi, have a friend drop you off or park in the long-stay car park. If you choose to park in the long-stay car park, allow for at least 30 minutes to make your way to the airport building. Make a note of your parking bay or take a picture in case you forget. Keep your parking ticket in a secure place.16. NEVER leave your bags unattended at the airport. Unattended bags may spark a security lock-down that will disrupt check-in and may lead to you being detained for questioning and potentially missing your flight.17. If you can, pass the time in one of the lounges. Customers of certain banks and holders of certain bank accounts are permitted free access to the slow lounge. If you are battling to entertain your children, take them up to the viewing deck, available at most airports, to watch the planes take off and land.18. Take your laptop out while you re in the queue for security scanning to avoid holding up other travellers. Also ensure that your laptop is charged as some airports ask you to switch it on to prove that it is a genuine laptop.19. Make your way to your boarding gate as soon as possible. Delays are often caused by passengers who do not make it to the boarding gate on time, causing them to be bumped from the flight.20. Carry a black pen in your cabin baggage/handbag/laptop bag. This will save time as you can fill in the immigration forms while you stand in the immigration queue or while waiting to disembark.