Caution when cooking Food, like in most countries, is an important part of South African culture. We boil, grill, fry and braai right through the day in some households. This can be a potential danger around this time of year, as you may forget the chicken in the oven, forget to check the boiling potatoes, and children run around the braai. Take extra care in and out of the kitchen, to avoid burning your food, yourself, or your home. Holiday wrapping and ribbons Some of these products may contain lead, or the ink or synthesized fabrics may be toxic when ingested. After everyone has unwrapped their gifts, make sure to get rid of the wrapping and ribbons as soon as possible, or to put it away, out of reach of children and pets. Not only may they get sick if they ingest it somehow, it may also become a choking hazard. Ornaments and Candles Christmas decorations are a vital part of the festive season, as we wait 11 months for the opportunity to put them up. Going all out with candles, lights and ornaments, we transform our homes into magazine catalogues. This may pose a threat when you have children in your home. Children may knock the candles over, or break an ornament and step in the glass. Christmas lights can easily twist around a child s neck. Make sure to place these things at an appropriate height, where children cannot reach them. CPR We all know about the dangers of a child possibly going under water in the pool, but an often overlooked fact is that they are fragile compared to adults. Take caution when performing CPR, to prevent crushing, fracturing or breaking their ribs. Try to have at least one adult in the home trained to do CPR by a professional. Driving Tourists are everywhere, both foreign and local, especially this time of the year. People are enjoying the holiday season or visiting family. This means, a lot of people are driving about in areas they are not too familiar with, ending up in one-ways, the wrong lanes, or driving really slow in search of a sign to direct them. Relax and keep a steady speed and distance to avoid unnecessary accidents. Also keep everything you do not need close by, in your boot. This will prevent unnecessary projectile objects when you need to come to halt abruptly. You do not need your pudding flung into the back of your mother-in-law s head.Also see: What most people forget when going on holiday