 ANC ANC spokesman Mr Tulare Madileng said the party was satisfied with its preparations for Wednesday. He added that all their councillors, supporters and obeservers were organised and ready. “This is going to be the most exciting local government elections to date,” he said. Madileng was sure the elections would run smoothly and be free and fair. The party is organising a prayer meeting at KaNyamazane on Sunday, to pray for a peaceful election. In the meantime the ANC is going full steam ahead in electioneering this weekend. Representatives will be on the ground in communities to ensure the party is visible in the final stretch before people go to the polls. “We are very happy and excited about Wednesday,” he concluded. EFF Mr Collen Sedibe said the EFF would ensure its visibility in the final lead-up to the elections by being everywhere. “We are going door to door, we will be in the shopping malls, we will be on buses to spread our message to the people,” he said. Sedibe added that they had been warmly received by voters. “People realise the EFF is their last hope to get quality services. We speak directly to the issues of the poorest of the poor and the middle class. Many people have promised that they will vote for us.” This is the first time the party will participate in local government elections. He added that they expected a smooth election day. “We don’t expect any problems. We won’t tolerate violence.” BRA Bushbuckridge Residents Association (BRA) leader Mr Cleopas Maunye agreed that his party expected a peaceful election day. BRA is contesting the election mainly in Bushbuckridge Local Municipality. They had been campaigning hard in the area and said they were ready to go to the polls. “We are in the last stretch now,” Maunye said. “We have mobilised all our supporters to be on the ground this weekend to safeguard our votes. We want them to make sure people who want to vote for us do so. We are going to win this municipality.” He said party agents would also ensure people were aware of the process to be followed on Wednesday. “There is going to be a huge turnout of voters this year,” Maunee concluded.