MBOMBELA &#8211; The police drug unit is cracking down on dealers and users in the city. The unit made two arrests on Wednesday. Const Josh Makua said they made up to six drug busts per day. According to police spokesman, Capt Dawie Pretorius, the first of Wednesday&#8217;s arrests occurred at 29 Summer Place in LeadwoodStreet. It was made as a result of information obtained during a drug bust at Belladonna Shopping Centre last month. Mr Henry Onyeka Ozoemenam (32) was arrested after he was caught dealing in drugs in broad daylight on September 28.Police at Summer Place complex in Leadwood Street.Bossies Community Justice&#8217;sMr Albert Gryvenstein and Hi-Tech Security Nelspruit operations manager, Mr Callum MacPherson, made the arrest after watching the drug deal go down in front of them. Ozoemenam then led police to the Summer Place complex where Nigerian drug dealers reportedly lived. Upon arrival the police were told that the Nigerians had evacuated the flat. They staked the property out for three weeks. On Wednesday the long-awaited breakthrough happened.Read more here: SA man bust with drugs worth millionsSgt David Dlamini, Makua, WO Happy Phiri, Const Vlard Milanzi, Const Ben Chilwane and Sgt Loewie Laubscher were watching the premises from the early hours of the morning. &#8220;We did so from 02:00 until the suspect was eventually seen at 10:00,&#8221; said Makua. He said patience was the name of their game.Laubscher said the unit discovered CAT with a street value of R20 600 in a flat. Nigerian citizen, Mr Ifenya Harrison Aqbidu (34), was arrested and charged with dealing in and possession of drugs.Police drug unit member, Const Ben Chilwane, outside the Nelspruit Police Station cells.The next arrest occurred at 13:00. The unit was tipped off about a dealer in Bester Street. &#8220;We raided his flat and discovered dagga with a street value of approximately R800,&#8221; said Makau. Mr Arnold Mkhonza (28) was charged with dealing in and possession of dagga. Aqbidu and Mkhonz appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate&#8217;s Court on Thursday. New information about Ozoemenam has since come to light. He was previously found guilty of drug-related offences in Bloemfontein. During that time, he had appeared in court under a false name. After he had served his time, he applied for asylum from Home Affairs under his real name.Laubscher said he had informed Home Affairs of Ozoemenam&#8217;s current cases and past conviction in Bloemfontein. His asylum status has been revoked. Ozoemenam is still in custody. Two South Africans, Mr Jean-Pierre Holder (34) and Mr Tommie Enslin (31), were arrested with Ozoemenam on September 28. CAT and LSD were found in their possession. Enslin received bail of R1 000. Holder, who has cases pending against him in Pretoria, was denied bail and is still in custody.Read more here: Crime fighters stumble upon parking-lot drug deal