MBOMBELA &#8211; South Africa has excellent legislation to deal with drug offenders, but the effective implementation thereof is failing., and found they were repeatedly released on bail. In all three cases, the prosecution failed to apply the law and oppose their release successfully. Mr Wisdom Onnyekachi Adibe, a Nigerian national known on the streets as &#8220;Biggy,&#8221; was first arrested on February 19. He allegedly had CAT, crystal meth and cocaine worth R34 000 in his possession. While out on bail, he was arrested in April and charged with the possession of crystal meth, cocaine, heroin, LSD, CAT and Ecstasy.The investigating officer pleaded with the court that it would not be in the interests of justice to release Adibe again. Yet he was granted bail.Henry Onyeka Ozoemenam, a Nigerian national, was out on bail after being charged with drug-related crimes a month prior, when he was arrested for dealing at Belladonna Centre on September 28. Police discovered he had a previous conviction in Bloemfontein. Bail was opposed and the investigating officer testified that Ozoemenam had asylum to be in South Africa The officer was of the opinion that his asylum should have been revoked. He requested home affairs to revoke it, but a second subsequent asylum application was then approved in Musina, Limpopo. Lowvelder requested an explanation from the department&#8217;s national spokesman, Mr Mayhlome Tshwete. The newspaper asked, when this application was submitted, if a hearing was held to consider it in accordance with legal requirements and why it was granted. Tshwete was unavailable for comment via email, SMS and phone. Ozoemenam was granted R4 000 bail.Drug deal bust at Belladonna.Mr Issa Ali, a Nigerian national, was arrested twice in 2015. In both instances it was alleged that he possessed drugs. He did not have any documentation pertaining to his identity, citizenship or place of residence, yet he was released on bail. During Ali&#8217;s court appearance, a frustrated investigating officer, Sgt Loewie Laubscher, advised the accused, &#8220;If and when I arrest you again, at least have your papers with you.&#8221; This year he was arrested for the same offence. He did not have his papers with him but was granted bail. The police considered all three men flight risks.The Criminal Procedure Act dictates that certain factors must be considered in a bail application.The interest of justice must be served. If the accused is a flight risk or is likely to commit a crime while out on bail, he should not be released. If &#8220;the interests of society outweigh the rights of the lawless individual&#8221;, he must not be released on bail, according to a Constitutional Court precedent. In South Africa, magistrates and judges make the final decision based on arguments presented in favour of, and opposing, bail.The link between the law and justice is the prosecution, and it is at times assisted by departments like home affairs and justice. The law requires that a prosecutor present valid arguments and evidence to successfully oppose bail. Where the status of foreigners is concerned, the law requires that home affairs provide documentation and, in some cases, further evidence, on why persons are in the country.Local policemen and prosecutors, however, have reported that the department&#8217;s assistance has shortcomings. They also reported challenges like the overwhelming number of cases. In June some of their complaints were aired to the Department of Justice during a public hearing on anti-racism legislation. These included a shortage of resources, competent court personnel and magistrates. According to one police officer who spoke to the newspaper on condition on anonymity, the problem has a solution. &#8220;We need a specialised court dedicated to drug cases. It would mean more specialised prosecutors and magistrates. That is the only way to win this war,&#8221; he said.The Department of Home Affairs, the Department of Justice and the National Prosecuting Authority failed to answer the newspaper&#8217;s questions about their apparent inability to carry out their respective administrative and legal duties.Read more here: DRUG BUST ARTICLES&nbsp;