LYDENBURG &#8211; Two men appeared in court on charges of murder, attempted murder, and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition on Monday.The suspects, aged 27 and 19, appeared in the Lydenburg Magistrate&#8217;s Court after their arrest on Sunday.Mpumalanga police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, said the SAPS received information early on Sunday morning that a man was found bleeding profusely at a filling station.&#8220;They went to investigate and, on arrival, found two security guards who pointed them to a man who was lying on the ground face up, wearing a blue T-shirt and brown trousers,&#8221; said Hlathi.Also read: Annatjie Myburgh suspects in White River court While contacting the ambulance service, they discovered another man, also bleeding heavily, nearby. &#8220;They found the second man bleeding from his mouth. He wanted to talk but could not because his teeth were falling out,&#8221; stated Hlathi.The officers gave him a pen and paper to write down what had happened. He claimed he had been robbed of a white VW Golf 1.6 by two unknown men. He said he was with the other man at the time of the robbery.Upon the arrival of emergency services, the first man was declared dead on the scene. The second was rushed to hospital. Police contacted neighbouring stations to be on the lookout for the Golf.Also read: Over 100 alleged poachers in court The suspects were apprehended near Machadodorp the same day. Hlathi said the inside of the vehicle was blood- stained. A firearm which is believed to have been used in the crime, was found in the accused&#8217;s possession.&#8220;A quick probe suggested that one of the suspects in whose possession the firearm was found, appeared to be the one who had shot the victims. The same suspect further made an admission that, in 2013, he had committed a business robbery in Mashishing. Further investigations regarding the miscreants are underway,&#8221; Hlathi concluded.At the time of going to press the accused&#8217;s names were not yet available.