KOMATIPOORT &#8211; South African rangers are not allowed to carry weapons in Mozambique. One recently stared death in the face in an incident that included an angry mob, an off-duty policeman wielding an AK-47 and an escaped poacher.Keeping calm saved the day for ranger, Mr Sean van Niekerk (25).He got a call in the middle of the day on October 1 to help fellow rangers in an elite anti-poaching team in Corruman in Mozambique.Van Niekerk is part of a number of anti-poaching teams funded by the International Anti-Poaching Foundation. They protect a corridor between South Africa and Mozambique.He is responsible for protecting sections of Sabie Game Park and a corridor near Massingir Dam.On the day the team which had called for assistance was south of Corruman Dam. Members arrested a suspected poacher and took possession of his bakkie, two buffalo carcasses and a rifle.Van Niekerk met up with fellow ranger Mr Johan du Plessis, a Mozambican ranger, an armed government official and the alleged poacher. Along the way Sean picked up another three armed Mozambicans government officials for assistance. The Mozambicans drove the suspect to the police station in Corruman in his own vehicle.Du Plessis and Van Niekerk accompanied them in Van Niekerk&#8217;s 4&#215;4. At the station, a crowd was waiting. The suspect managed to free himself and flee. Warning shots were fired by Van Niekerk&#8217;s group. This agitated the crowd. &#8220;They were rowdy. The mob built up. Remember, some of them are ex-poachers,&#8221; Van Niekerk told Lowvelder.He gave chase, rearrested the man and handed him back to the officials. People started to move in, throwing stones and bottles. To appease them, the officials set the suspect free.Van Niekerk, Du Plessis, the other ranger and the official ran towards a nearby military base. The three rangers became separated from the officials, who reached the safety of the base. Van Niekerk radioed for helicopter support. He realised a chopper would not be able to pick them up where they were.He was hit over the head with a panga and stabbed in his neck with a bottle. He warded off some blows. They were knocked down several times but managed to get up. They were all severely beaten.In the distance they heard the chopper approaching. The main thing was to stay on their feet. Van Niekerk was hit against the head with a rock and lost consciousness for a few minutes.Then, out of the crowd came their saving grace &#8211; an off-duty police officer wielding an AK-47. &#8220;He came out of nowhere and came to stand close to me. I felt so relieved,&#8221; said Van Niekerk.He radioed again, but the device was badly damaged. Luckily, he was able to guide the chopper to where they were. Van Niekerk and Du Plessis were flown to safety a few kilometres away in the bush. The chopper went back for the Mozambican ranger.Van Niekerk took a shower to wash the blood off. Their wounds were cleaned and they were airlifted to hospital where Van Niekerk was kept in ICU for two days. He spent three more days in a general ward. One of his many injuries was a skull fracture. He is expected to be able to rejoin the team again early in November. &#8220;I can&#8217;t wait. In the area that we operate we have not lost one rhino in four months,&#8221; Van Niekerk concluded.