Jeanri van Deventer is looking for her sister.MBOMBELA &#8211; In recent weeks, Lowelder wrote about a young woman, Ms Jeanri van Deventer, who was looking for a sister she never knew she had. She was not aware of all the options available to her.This is the same for many other adoptees and adoptive parents who do not know where to start. Many biological parents are also unaware that they are permitted by law to enquire about the child they gave up for adoption.All adoptions in South Africa have to be registered with the Registrar of Adoptions in Pretoria. Agencies should keep these records for 70 years.If you are adopted and are thinking of looking for your biological mother or father, you should speak to your adoptive parents about your plans as it is important to be honest with them. They may have important information which could assist you in your search. Also, if you are under 18 years old, you will need their consent.Also read: HELP: Woman longs to meet long-lost siblingAccording to parent24.com, &#8220;You can start by requesting your adoption records through the agency that handled your adoption, a local social worker, the Registrar of Adoptions in Pretoria or a private locating specialist.&#8221;You will need at least some of the following information: Where you were born The date you were born Your full name Your ID number Your current address The full names of your adoptive parents and their ID numbers Who handled the adoption.Social worker for Child Welfare Nelspruit, Mr Qondile Dewa, says it is incredibly important to follow the correct procedures as each adoption case is different; some more complicated than others.We need to assess each case on its own to see what the circumstances of the adoption were and whether it is wise to give out certain information. Counselling of the different parties may also be necessary,&#8221; he explains.Also read: Protect your unborn childMs Magda Streuders of the Christian Social Council agrees. She says most organisations have adoption specialists who deal with cases like these.&#8220;Any person who has an enquiry should go for an interview with a social worker immediately, before trying to search for information alone,&#8221; she says.&#8220;There needs to be some kind of preparation for all parties concerned to avoid causing any additional trauma. We need to know what the motives are for finding out the information too.&#8221;She recommends approaching any organisation which provides social worker services.We will try to steer the person in the right direction, even if the adoption did not happen in this area or in the province even. There have to be records on file,&#8221; Streuders adds.Once you have received your adoption records, you will need to decide how to proceed. Do you still want to find and meet your biological parents? If and when your biological parents are found, the agency concerned will find out what they want to do. Unfortunately, biological parents often do not want to meet the child. If they do, the next step will be anything, from email correspondence to a meeting in person. The agency should stay involved until all parties are comfortable.Some useful contact details: Child Welfare Nelspruit &#8211; 013-753-3330 Christian Social Council/Christelike Maatskaplike Raad Nelspruit &#8211; 013-752-4842/cmr-mpumalanga.co.za Christian Social Council Mpumalanga Adoption Specialist, Middelberg &#8211; Rensche du Toit on 013-243-4776 Suid-Afrikaanse Vrouefederasie Nelspruit &#8211; 013-752-3234/www.savf.co.za Registrar of Adoptions, Pretoria &#8211; 012-312-7593.