MBOMBELA &#8211; The Timeless Group, a well-known name in the local pageantry, joined hands with an international organisation, Magnificent Women International (MWI), last Thursday night. MWI facilitates an annual international competition of which Mbombela will be the host in 2017.The competition has been running since 2010 and showcases the beauty, intelligence and grace of women worldwide every year.The status of Mbombela as 2017&#8217;s host city and the Timeless Group&#8217;s achievement in making this happen, were celebrated at Weylandts last Thursday.The ambassadors and title holders of the 2017 competition were announced during the stylish get-together.Also read: Lydenburg&#8217;s own first choice Joanne Fischer Steyn began the festivities by performing a few all-time favourite songs. Jacques Lombard, owner of Timeless Group, took to the stage next. &#8220;As hosting country, we will need ambassadors and title holders for all of the competition&#8217;s categories,&#8221; he said.South Africa did not have a title holder on national level, so a team of industry experts carefully picked title holders based on merit and previous experience.South Africa&#8217;s Jeanette Kruger-Hibbens from Lydenburg, currently Miss MWI International, will play a key role in promoting MWI in the country.Six other Mpumalanga beauties were selected as the South African title holders in various categoriesElch Kayla Thaver is the MWI Host Ambassador. Dant Lombard, a Ho rskool Nelspruit pupil, carries the Miss MWI Teen (aged 15 to 17) title. Lombard congratulated Anuschka Erasmus from Ho rskool Bergvlam, who holds the title of Miss MWI (aged 18 to 27). Yisenia Croublet Savon is the national title holder of the Beauty MWI category (aged 18 to 34). Linda Lourens wears the Miss MWI sash for South African women aged 35 to 49. Lastly, Ronel Joubert was congratulated as she will now bear the title of Miss MWI Elite (aged 50 and older.)Also read: InternationalMWI executive president, Syndee Keitt, flew all the way from Atlanta, Georgia in the United States to attend the event. She was impressed with South Africa&#8217;s elected representatives and elated to place the Miss MWI International sash over Kruger-Hibbens&#8217; shoulders.Keitt and Lombard agreed that they were looking forward to hosting delegates from 38 countries during next year&#8217;s competition.