MBOMBELA &#8211; Limited data on the quality of air countrywide is creating an obstacle for authorities who need to formulate strategies to combat pollution. This became apparent during an air-quality governance lekgotla held in the first week of October.Dysfunctional air-pollution monitoring stations, a lack of scientific data, not apportioning blame and a non-existent strategy to deal with emissions in dense low-income settlements, are just some of the challenges highlighted to the more than 300 delegates.Although a network of air-quality monitoring stations exists, information is limited. National air-quality officer, Dr Thuli Khumalo, confirmed that the stations in a number of municipalities were dysfunctional. This means we don t have data to formulate strategies. We are continuously on the back foot. We need more local action. It is a critical issue, she said. Once the dirt is in the air, it is also in the lung. Mr Albi Modise, chief director of communications at the Departmental of Environmental Affairs (DEA), agreed that there is no scientifically based data on sources of pollution in Mpumalanga.This would make pursuing a source while overlooking others shortsighted. Any attempts to apportion the prevalence of certain diseases to a particular source would be mere speculation, he said.The department has recognised the need for an assessment and a health study has been initiated for the Highveld Priority Area.The department is in the process of developing a strategy to address air pollution in dense, low-income settlements. It has been recognised that emissions from the burning of coal and other fuels for the purposes of heating are a significant source of air pollution, said Modise.This was echoed by Mr Vusi Shongwe, MEC for rural development and environmental affairs, in his opening address to the lekgotla. We need to reduce household emissions if we want to restore dignity to communities. Everyone has a right to clean air. We are dealing with real life here, not merely technical matters, he said.Shongwe was outspoken regarding car emissions. Vehicle owners should take responsibility for the way they pollute the air. We need to clean up Mpumalanga s roads, but also identify other sources of pollution and address those, he said.The DEA has declared areas in Nkangala and Gert Sibande district municipalities as requiring priority interventions in air quality, but Khumalo said the air quality in Ehlanzeni generally complied with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards.