SKUKUZA &#8211; SANParks Honorary Rangers have donated two extreme-terrain vehicles (ETVs) and additional field equipment valued at over R2 million to SANParks in an effort to increase the clout of anti-rhino poaching units in the Kruger National Park (KNP).The John Deere Gator ETVs will be used by the park s environmental crime- investigations unit to reach these scenes quickly where rhinos have been poached and to access difficult terrain in their hunt for poachers.The cost of the Gators was about R700 000, while the equipment is valued at R1,6 million &#8211; consisting of tents, rifle slings, sleeping bags, camping equipment, rifle-cleaning kits, backpacks and various other essential items. These were handed over for the rangers clandestine anti-poaching operations.Mr John Turner, chairman of the Conservation Services Unit of SANParks Honorary Rangers, who facilitated the supply of the equipment, said the war against poachers was basically a para-military operation these days and without the equipment the anti-poaching units cannot operate .Turner thanked Lasher Tools that, in the past three years, has donated R2 million towards the effort to fight poachers. He said without Lasher s exceptional generosity this supply of essential equipment would not have been possible. He also thanked Rhino Tears Wines, that contributed R830 000 to the cause.The Gator ETVs would also be used to enable the swift completion of post-mortems on rhino carcasses, as well as for patrolling by section rangers and the K9 unit to access difficult terrain that poachers use to evade capture. Section ranger Mr Marius Renke said they were very thankful for the addition of the John Deere Gator to their toolbox .It is especially handy when spoors had been noted in a detection zone. Usually field-ranger teams are deployed to try and pick up the spoors further along the direction of movement. If it is seen, the team that has been following the tracks initially, is fetched from the management block &#8211; sometimes far away from roads &#8211; using the Gator. The team therefore, does not have to walk all the way which saves a great deal of time and energy. It also helps us to gain ground on the poachers according to the leap-frog principle, said Renke. In summer the tracking dogs get tired and overheat quickly, but by using the Gator the dogs can be picked up from wherever they are in the middle of the bush and moved to where the freshest tracks are. The dogs can rest and rehydrate on the Gator. Once again, valuable ground is gained on suspects, Renke concluded.* Read more about anti-poaching strategies changing in KNP: http://lowvelder.co.za/353726/anti-poaching-methods-a-game-changer-in-knp/&nbsp;