MBOMBELA &#8211; The former head of the Hawks in Mpumalanga appeared in the Regional Court last week. Maj Gen Simon Mapyane stands accused on five counts of fraud related to travel claims.He was arrested in May 2013. He was removed from his position by former Hawks head, Lt Gen Anwar Dramat, in November 2014, after the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union staged a sit-in at the provincial head office in Mbombela to protest against Mapyane remaining in his position.Mapyane claimed that he had travelled to Pretoria to attend a meeting concerning specific investigations on September 3, 2010. Digital fleet management consultant for the SAPS&#8217; Automatic Vehicle Location Project, Mr Eric Deysil, was called by the state on Friday. He testified that their system had traced the SAPS vehicle with registration number DSC 745 MP from September 1 to 3, 2010.Their specialised software can report on a vehicle&#8217;s movements via a satellite monitor. &#8220;The system will send a signal at least every five minutes,&#8221; he said. Deysil explained to the court that on September 3 the vehicle was tracked from Mbombela to Middelburg via the N4. In Middelburg driver stopped at Waterfall Safari Lodge for 68 minutes and then at a shopping centre. The driver travelled in the direction of Carolina and then towards Badplaas and Barberton, stopping again in Mbombela.Lowvelder previously reported that a witness, Lt April Kabini of Siyabuswa Police Station, was the investigating officer of this alleged fraud.Kabini testified that the case for which Mapyane claimed the trip to Pretoria had been withdrawn in 2009, and that it was impossible that Mapyane would have attended a meeting about it. Former provincial police commissioner,Lt Gen Thulani Ntobela, also testified in the trial. He claimed that he had received a letter of complaint from an informant who wanted to remain anonymous. The letter lodged complaints about Mapyane&#8217;s use of state resources. Defence advocate, Mr Hetraam Goosen, disputed the evidence, saying the witness could have written and sent the letter to himself in an attempt to tarnish Mapyane&#8217;s image.Goosen claimed there was a conspiracy motivated by a personal vendetta against his client. Furthermore, he claimed the witness and other members of his team wanted to use the justice system to get rid of Mapyane. According to Goosen, the relationship between Ntobela and Mapyane had soured prior to him being charged. The trial continues this week.Read more here: SIMON MAPYANE ARTICLES