SKUKUZA The new and completely transformed Tshokwane Trading Post &amp; Picnic Site offers visitors to the Park a unique and delicious way of dining.Adrian Mar , consultant from Tourvest who designed the dishes on the menu and trains the kitchen staff and waitrons gave Laevelder an insight into how to prepare an authentic venison potjie.&nbsp;Potjiekos is the signature dish of South Africa s best-loved bush cuisine. Here at Tshokwane it is part of a one-of-a-kind braai experience.Mar gave Laevelder five hints for making slow-food the Boerevintage-way and shared his Wildsvleispotjie (stew) recipe with our readers.1. Don&#8217;t use your hands to mix frikkadells (meatballs). Rather mix with two forks while raking the meat closer together.2. When you buy meat look at the colour of the meat. The lighter the colour of the wors the greater the possibility of fillers that can go sour in the heat when you are in the bush.3. Meat marinaded with balsamic vinegar taste better. Keep spices to the minimum in a marinade and rather use marjoram and rosemary with salt and pepper.4. Use fresh lemon when preparing dishes. Lemon brings out the flavour of ingredients.5. Freeze fresh herbs in olive oil in small bags.Adrian Mar se Tshokwane Wildspotjie(Enough for more than 10 guests)1 kg Boneless venison (Kudu/Impala)250 g Beef meat cut into cubes40 g Cake Flour5 g Salt5 g Ground black pepper5 g Grate nutmeg5 g Ground cloves20 g Coriander40 g Mushroom soup powder500 ml Apple juice250 ml White wine (Optional)250 g Potato250 g Carrots250 g Onions30 g Garlic chopped (otional)250 g Hubbard pumpkin cut into chunky piecesCan of ready tomato and onion mix500 ml WaterDumplings350 g Selfraising flour5 g salt300 ml Fresh milkMethod Bown meat in a heated potjie. Then add the flour, seasoning spices. Mix soup powder with water until smooth and add. Add the potato, carrot and pumpkin pieces. Don&#8217;t mix through but rather keep packed. Add the wine and apple juice.Cook on fire about three hours on slow heat. Close the lid of the black pot, add charcoal on the lid and less heat under pot.Prepare the dumplings by mixing all the ingredients to a soft dough. Spoon the dough on the top of vegetables, cover and keep tightly closed while it cooks for another 30 minutes. Add charcoal on top of the lid.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;